---
title: 《新概念英语二》73~96笔记
date: 2022-02-19 15:26:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 73 The record-holder

## text
{% meting "28258395" "netease" "song" %}

Did the boy go where he wanted to?

Children who play truant from school are unimaginative. A quiet day's fishing, or eight hours in a cinema seeing the same film over and over again, is usually as far as they get. They have all been put to shame by a boy who, while playing truant, travelled 1,600 miles. He hitchhiked to Dover and, towards evening, went into a boat to find somewhere to sleep. When he woke up next morning, he discovered that the boat had, in the meantime, travelled to Calais. No one noticed the boy as he crept off. From there, he hitchhiked to Paris in a lorry. The driver gave him a few biscuits and a cup of coffee and left him just outside they city. The next car they boy stopped did not take him into the centre of Paris as he hoped it would, but to Perpignan on the French-Spanish border. There he was picked up by a policeman and sent back to England by the local authorities. He has surely set up a record for the thousands of children who dream of evading school.

## Key Structure
- 复习简单句/并列句/复合句

- 如何连接句子
    - not only ... but as well
        - The climbers reached the top of the mountain.
        - They spent the night there.
        - The climbers __not only__ reached the top of the mountain __but__ spent night there __as well__.
    - such ... that
        - He gave me a fright.
        - I knocked the teapot over.
        - He gave me __such__ a fright __that__ I knocked the teapot over.
    - when ... and
        - A fire broke out in the cinema.
        - Several hundred people tried to leave the building.
        - A number of them were injured.
        - __When__ a fire broke out in the cinema, several hundred people tried to leave the building and a number of them were injured.
    - whose
        - James Sullivan will give a lecture at the local library.
        - His book on the Antarctic was published recently.
        - James Sullivan, __whose__ book on the Antarctic was published recently, will give a lecture at the local library.


# Lesson 74 Out of the limelight

## text
{% meting "28258396" "netease" "song" %}

Why was their disguise 'too perfect'?

An ancient bus stopped by a dry river bed and a party of famous actors and actresses got off. Dressed in dark glasses and old clothes, they had taken special precautions so that no one should recognize them. But as they soon discovered, disguises can sometimes be too perfect.  
'This is a wonderful place for a picnic,' said Gloria Gleam.  
'It couldn't be better, Gloria,' Brinksley Meers agreed. 'No newspaper men, no film fans! Why don't we come more often?'  
Meanwhile, two other actors, Rockwall Slinger and Merlin Greeves, had carried two large food baskets to a shady spot under some trees. When they had all made themselves comfortable, a stranger appeared. He looked very angry. 'Now you get out of here, all of you!' he shouted. 'I'm sheriff here. Do you see that notice? It says "No camping" - in case you can't read!'  
'Look, sheriff,' said Rockwall, 'don't be too hard on us. I'm Rockwall Slinger and this is Merlin Greeves.'  
'Oh, is it?' said the sheriff with a sneer. 'Well, I'm Brinksley Meers, and my other name is Gloria Gleam. Now you get out of here fast!'

## Key Structure

- 复习现在进行时/一般现在时

- 限定 / 非限定性的定语从句
    - This is __the wall which__ they built last week.
    - This is __the Great Wall, which__ is world-famous.

- 动词get的词组搭配:
    - Now you __get out of__ here, all of you!
    - The door is locked. I can't __get out__.
    - I've lost my key. I can't __get into__ the house.
    - How is he __getting on__ in his new job?
    - __Get on with__ you work.
    - He's so difficult, I can't __get on with__ him.
    - Tom was punished, but Jim __got off__ lightly.
    - I can't __get__ the cap of this pen off.
    - He has now __got over__ his illness.
    - I want to __get__ this interview __over__ as quickly as possible.

# Lesson 75 SOS

## text
{% meting "28258397" "netease" "song" %}

How did the woman get help?

When a light passenger plane flew off course some time ago, it crashed in the mountains and its pilot was killed. The only passengers a young woman and her two baby daughters, were unhurt. It was the middle of winter. Snow lay thick on the ground. The woman knew that the nearest village was miles away. When it grew dark, she turned a suitcase into a bed and put the children inside it, covering them with all the clothes she could find. During the night, it got terribly cold. The woman kept as near as she could to the children and even tried to get into the case herself, but it was too small. Early next morning, she heard planes passing overhead and wondered how she could send a signal. Then she had an idea. She stamped out the letters 'SOS' in the snow. Fortunately, a pilot saw the signal and sent a message by radio to the nearest town. It was not long before a helicopter arrived on the scene to rescue the survivors of the plane crash.

## Key Structure

- 复习一般过去时

- 表示“变得”:
    - He __grew__ angry when I told him about it.
    - The leaves are __turning__ yellow.
    - This apple has __gone__ bad.
    - Coal __got__ scarce last winter.
    - Everything you said __came__ true.
    - She __fell__ ill while she was on holiday.
- by
    - 'I've just arrived __by__ train,' she said.
    - It was bought __by__ my grandfather.
    - They told stories and sang songs __by__ the campfire.
    - Workers will have completed the new roads __by__ the end of this year.
    - It cleared the mountain __by__ 400 feet.

# Lesson 76 April Fools' Day

## text
{% meting "28258398" "netease" "song" %}

What was the joke?

'To end our special news bulletin,' said the voice of the television announcer, 'we're going over to the macaroni fields of Calabria, Macaroni has been grown in this area for over six hundred years. Two of the leading growers, Giuseppe Moldova and Riccardo Brabante, tell me that they have been expecting a splendid crop this year and harvesting has begun earlier than usual. Here you can see two workers who, between them, have just finished cutting three cartloads of golden brown macaroni stalks. The whole village has been working day and night gathering and threshing this year's crop before the September rains. On the right, you can see Mrs.Brabante herself. She has been helping her husband for thirty years now. Mrs.Brabante is talking to the manager of the local factory where the crop is processed. This last scene shows you what will happen at the end of the harvest: the famous Calabrian macaroni-eating competition! Signor Fratelli, the present champion, has won it every year since 1991. And that ends our special bulletin for today, Thursday, April 1st. We're now going back to the studio.'

## Key Structure

- 复习: 现在完成时 / 现在完成进行时
    - have/has done |  have/has been doing

- 区别: usual / usually
    - usual
        - usual practice
        - as usual / than usual
    - usually
        - do sth. usually
    - Harvesting has begun earlier than __usual__.
    - He __usually__ gets up at six o'clock.

- 区别: between / among
    - between
        - between you and me
    - among
        - among all the students
    - Here you can see two workers who, __between__ them, have just finished cutting three cartloads of golden brown macaroni stalks.
    - You'll find it somewhere __among__ those newspapers.

- 区别: usual / usually | between / among
    - I found your pipe. It was __among__ those things on the table.
    - As __usual__, he asked the same silly questions.
    - __Between__ studying and playing, I choose the latter.
    - He __usually__ returns home very late.

# Lesson 77 A successful operation

## text
{% meting "28258399" "netease" "song" %}

Did the doctors find out how the woman died?

The mummy of an Egyptian woman who died in 800 B.C. has just had an operation. The mummy is that of Shepenmut who was once a singer in the Temple of Tbebes. As there were strange marks on the X-ray plates taken of the mummy, doctors have been trying to find out whether the woman died of a rare disease. The only way to do this was to operate. The operation, which lasted for over four hours, proved to be very difficult because of the hard resin which covered the skin. The doctors removed a section of the mummy and set it to a laboratory. They also found something which the X-ray plates did not show: a small wax figure of the god Duamutef. This god which has the head of a cow was normally placed inside a mummy. The doctors have not yet decided how the woman died. They feared that the mummy would fall to pieces when they cut it open, but fortunately this has not happened. The mummy successfully survived the operation.

## Key Structure

- 复习: 一般过去时 / 现在完成时 / 现在完成进行时
    - did | have/has has done | have/has been doing

- 区别: ago / since / for
    - They won the match __three day ago__.
    - __Since 1992__, we have lived in this city.
    - They have been practicing __for a year__.
    - He stayed with us __for__ two weeks.
    - She arrived two weeks __ago__.
    - I have not seen him __since__ Monday.
    - He left a mont __ago__ and I have not seen him __since__ then.
    - We have been working on this new plane __for__ over a year now.

# Lesson 78 The last one?

## text
{% meting "28258400" "netease" "song" %}

For how long did the writer give up smoking?

After reading an article entitled 'Cigarette Smoking and Your Health' I lit a cigarette to calm my nerves. I smoked with concentration and pleasure as I was sure that this would be my last cigarette. For a whole week I did not smoke at all and during this time, my wife suffered terribly. I had all the usual symptoms of someone giving up smoking: a bad temper and an enormous appetite. My friends kept on offering me cigarettes and an cigars. They made no effort to hide their amusement whenever I produced a packet of sweets from my pocket. After seven days of this I went to a party. Everybody around me was smoking and I felt extremely uncomfortable. When my old friend Brian urged me to accept a cigarette, it was more than I could bear. I took one guiltily, lit it and smoked with satisfaction. My wife was delighted that things had returned to normal once more. Anyway, as Brian pointed out, it is the easiest thing in the world to give up smoking. He himself has done it lots of times!

## Key Structure

- 复习冠词

- 动词keep搭配的词组:
    - My friends __kept on__ offering me cigarettes.
    - Please __keep off__ the grass.
    - He __kept away from__ the party.
    - Under my essay, the teacher wrote, 'Good work! __Keep it up__!'
    - He ran so fast, I could not __keep up with__ him.
    - A big notice on the door said, '__Keep out__!'
    - The cat __was kept in__ during the fireworks.
    - I think he kept __away from__ the meeting on purpose.
    - He kept __on__ making the same mistake.
    - Keep __off__ the floor. I have just finished clean.

# Lesson 79 By air

## text
{% meting "28258401" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the plane turn back?

I used to travel by air a great deal when I was a boy. My parents used to live in South America and I used to fly there from Europe in the holidays. A flight attendant would take charge of me and I never had an unpleasant experience. I am used to travelling by air and only on one occasion have I ever felt frightened. After taking off, we were flying low over the city and slowly gaining height, when the plane suddenly turned round and flew back to the airport. While we were waiting to land, a flight attendant told us to keep calm and to get off the plane quietly as soon as it had touched down. Everybody on board was worried and we were curious to find out what had happened. Later we learnt that there was a very important person on board. The police had been told that a bomb planted on the plane. After we had landed, the plane was searched thoroughly. Fortunately, nothing was found and five hours later we were able to take off again.

## Key Structure

- used to do sth. / be sued to doing sth.

    - be used to + doing sth. / sth. | 习惯于做某事 / 某事 
        - My friend is used to swimming in winters.
        - He is used to sleeping during the daytime.

- 倒装句(部分倒装)
    - 突出强调
    - 格式: 否定词提前，变一般疑问句
    - 练习
        - You will never know the truth.
            - Never __will you know the truth__.
        - He cares little for my words.
            - Little __does he cares for my words__.
        - I had no sooner got the invitation than I refused.
            - No sooner __had I got the invitation than I refused__.
        - We can learn English well only in this way.
            - Only in ths way __can we learn English well__.
        - He achieved his goal only by working hard.
            - Only by working hard __did he achieve his goal__.

- 复习一般过去时/过去进行时/过去经常发生

- take 搭配的词组:
    - After __taking off__, we were flying over the city...
    - He __took off__ his coat.
    - He is always __taking__ his teacher __off__.
    - That wardrobe __takes up__ a lot of space.
    - He has __taken up__ French.
    - When his wife died, he __took to__ drinking.
    - Young Tom __takes after__ his father.
    - He was so persuasive that I __was taken in__.
    - The reporter __took down__ everything I said.
    - That business was doing very badly until Jones __took over__.
    - Who will take __over__ when the present director leaves.
    - As soon as he got into the lift he took his hat __off__.
    - You shouldn't be taken __in__ by stories like that.
    - None of my children takes __after__ me.

# Lesson 80 The Crystal Palace

## text
{% meting "28258402" "netease" "song" %}

How many people visited the Great Exhibition of 1851?

Perhaps the most extraordinary building of the nineteenth century was the Crystal Palace, which was built in Hyde Park for the Great Exhibition of 1851. The Crystal Palace was different from all other buildings in the world, for it was made of iron and glass. It was one of the biggest buildings of all time and a lot of people from many countries came to see it. A great many goods were sent to the exhibition from various parts of the world. There was also a great deal of machinery on display. The most wonderful piece of machinery on show was Nasmyth's steam hammer. Though in those days, travelling was not as easy as it is today, steam boats carried thousands of visitors across the Channel from Europe. On arriving in England, they were taken to the Crystal Palace by train. There were six million visitors in all, and the profits from the exhibition were used to build museums and colleges. Later, the Crystal Palace was moved to South London. It remained one of the most famous buildings in the world until it was burnt down in 1936.

## Key Structure

- 复习形容词/副词的比较

- 介词 on 搭配的词组:
    - He has gone to Frankfurt __on business__.
    - I asked to see the officer __on duty__.
    - __On the whole__, it has been a very successful year.
    - __On the average__, I make six telephone calls a day.
    - I didn't catch the bus. I came here __on foot__.
    - Look at that smoke. That building must be __on fire__.
    - I don't think it was an accident. He did it __on purpose__.
    - You mustn't __on any account__ sign the contract before you read it.
    - I know I had agreed to let you go to the cinema, but __on second thoughts__, you should stay at home and finish your homework.
    - While the guard was __on duty__, he heard a shot.
    - I've changed my mind. __On second thoughts__ I'll go by plane instead.
    - You must not, __on any account__, leave this room.
    - I'm not always pleased with his work, but __on the whole__ it is satisfactory.

# Lesson 81 Escape

## text
{% meting "28258403" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the prisoner attack the driver?

When he had killed the guard, the prisoner of war quickly dragged him into the bushes. Working rapidly in the darkness, he soon changed into the dead man's clothes. Now, dressed in a blue uniform and with a rifle over his shoulder, the prisoner marched boldly up and down in front of the camp. He could hear shouting in the camp itself. Lights were blazing and men were running here and there: they had just discovered that a prisoner had escaped. At that moment, a large black car with four officers inside it, stopped at the camp gates. The officers got out and the prisoner stood to attention and saluted as they passed. When they had gone, the driver of the car came towards him. The man obviously wanted to talk. He was rather elderly with grey hair and clear blue eyes. The prisoner felt sorry for him, but there was nothing else he could do. As the man came near, the prisoner knocked him to the ground with a sharp blow. Then, jumping into the car, he drove off as quickly as he could.

## Key Structure

- 复习介词

- in / into
- to / towards
- at
- with
- for

# Lesson 82 Monster or fish?

## text
{% meting "28258404" "netease" "song" %}

What was the monster called?

Fishermen and sailors sometimes claim to have seen monsters in the sea. Though people have often laughed at stories told by seamen, it is now known __that__ many of these 'monsters' __which have at time been sighted__ are simply strange fish. Occasionally, unusual creatures are washed to the shore, but they are rarely caught out at sea. Some time ago, however, a peculiar fish was caught near Madagascar. A small fishing boat was carried miles out to sea by the powerful fish as it pulled on the line. Realizing that this was no ordinary fish, the fisherman made every effort not to damage it in any way. When it was eventually brought to shore, it was found to be over thirteen feet long. It had a head like a horse, big blue eyes, shining silver skin, and a bright red tail. The fish, __which has since been sent to a museum where it is being examined by a scientist__, is called an oarfish. Such creatures have rarely been seen alive by man as they live at a depth of six hundred feet. 

## Key Structure

- 复习被动语态

- 非谓语动词
    - to do
    - to have done
    - Fishermen and sailors sometimes claim __to have seen monsters in the sea__.
        - 宣称过去看过了
    - Fishermen and sailors sometimes claim __to see monsters in the sea__.
        - 宣称要去看(还没见)
    - It is my pleasure __to have helped you__.
        - 已经帮过了
    - It is my pleasure __to help you__.
        - 要去帮(还没帮)

# Lesson 83 After the elections

## text
{% meting "28258405" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Patrick keep on asking the same question?

The former Prime Minister, Mr.Wentworth Lane, was defeated in the recent elections. He is now retiring from political life and has gone abroad. My friend, Patrick, has always been a fanatical opponent of Mr.Lane's Radical Progressive Party. After the elections, Patrick went to the former Prime Minister's house. When he asked if Mr.Lane lived there, the policeman on duty told him that since his defeat, the ex-Prime Minister had gone abroad. On the following day, Patrick went to the house again. The same policeman was just walking slowly past the entrance, when Patrick asked the same question. Though a little suspicious this time, the policeman gave him the same answer. The day after, Patrick went to the house once more and asked exactly the same question. This time, the policeman lost his temper. 'I told you yesterday and the day before yesterday,' he shouted, 'Mr.Lane was defeated in the elections. He has retired from political life and gone to live abroad!'  
'I know,' answered Patrick, 'but I love to hear you say it!'

## Key Structure

- 区别:(带()表示可替换)
    - temper(脾气)
        - This time, the policeman __lost his temper__.
        - __Keep your temper__!
        - You should apologize to him. He's __in avery bad temper__.(He is angry.)
    - mood(心情)
        - Don't disturb him. He's __in a very bad mood__.(He is not cheerful, but not necessarily angry)
        - I'm __in the mood for__ a driver into the country.

# Lesson 84 On strike

## text
{% meting "28258405" "netease" "song" %}

Who will be driving the buses next week?

Busmen have decided to go on strike next week. The strike is due to begin on Tuesday. No one knows how long it will last. The busmen have stated that the strike will continue until general agreement is reached about pay and working conditions. Most people believe that the strike will last for at least a week. Many owners of private cars are going to offer 'free rides' to people on their way to work. This will relieve pressure on the trains to some extent. Meanwhile, a number of university students have volunteered to drive buses while the strike last. All the students are expert drivers, but before they drive any of the buss, they will have to pass a special test. The students are going to take the test in two days' time. Even so, people are going to find it difficult to get to work. But so far, the public has expressed its gratitude to the students in letters to the Press. Only one or two people have objected that the students will drive too fast!

## Key Structure

- 复习一般将来时

- Even so, people are going to find it difficult to get to work.
    - 形式宾语 it
    - 真正的宾语 to do
- 形式宾语 it / 真正的宾语 to do
    - 他(过去)以为通过考试很容易。
        - He thought __it__ easy __to pass the examination__.
    - 我们发现学好英语很重要。
        - We find __it__ very important  __to learn English well__.

- 形式宾语 it / 真正的宾语 to do或从句
    - 我认为他应该受到惩罚是对的。
        - I feel __it__ right __that he should be punished__.
    - 他们知道他们赢得比赛不可能。
        - They know __it__ impossible __that they will win the match__.

# Lesson 85 Never too old to learn

## text
{% meting "28258407" "netease" "song" %}

How long has Mr.Page been teaching?

I have just received a letter from my old school, informing me that my former headmaster, Mr.Stuart Page, will be retiring next week. Pupils of the school, old and new, will be sending him a present to mark the occasion. All those __who have contributed towards the gift__ will sign their names in a large album __which will be sent to the headmaster's home__. We shall all remember Mr.Page for his patience and understanding and for the kindly encouragement he gave us when we went so unwillingly to school. A great many former pupils will be attending a farewell dinner in his honour next Thursday. It is a curious coincidence that the day before his retirement, Mr.Page will have been teaching for a total of forty years. After he has retired, he will devote himself to gardening. For him, this will be an entirely new hobby. But this does not matter, for, as he has often remarked, one is never too old to learn.

## Key Structure

- 复习 一般将来时/将来进行时/将来完成进行时

- too ... to... "太...以至于不能.."
    - too + adj./adv. + to do sth.
    - too young to go to school
    - too tired to clean the room
    - too old to learn

# Lesson 86 Out of control

## text
{% meting "28258408" "netease" "song" %}

What was the danger?

As the man tried to swing the speedboat round, the steering wheel came away in his hands. He waved desperately to his companion, who had been water skiing for the last fifteen minutes. Both men had hardly had time to realize what was happening when they were thrown violently into the sea. The speedboat had struck a buoy, but it continued to move very quickly across the water. Both men had just begun to swim towards the shore, when they noticed with dismay that the speedboat was moving in a circle. It now came straight towards them at tremendous speed. In less than a minute, it roared past them only a few feet away. After it had passed, they swam on as quickly as they could because they knew that the boat would soon return. They had just had enough time to swim out of danger when the boat again completed a circle. On this occasion, however, it had slowed down considerably. The petrol had nearly all been used up. Before long, the noise dropped completely and the boat began to drift gently across the water.

## Key Structure

- 复习 过去完成时 / 过去完成进行时

- 时态
    - 时间 + 状态
    - 通过谓语动词的变化来体现
    - 共16种

| | 过去 | 现在 | 将来 | 过去将来 |
|-|------|-----|------|----------|
|一般| √,3 |  √,2  |  √,12  |    7,9     |
|进行| √,7 |  √,2  |   13  |          |
|完成| √,9,14 |  √4,5 |   37  |          |
|完成进行|62,86|  52,53,76,77 | 61,85 |   |


# Lesson 87 A perfect alibi

## text
{% meting "28258409" "netease" "song" %}

What was wrong with the man's story?

'At the time the murder was committed, I was travelling on the 8 o'clock train to London,' said the man.  
'Do you always catch such an early train?' asked the inspector.  
'Of course I do,' answered the man. 'I must be at work at 10 o'clock. My employer will confirm that I was there on time.'  
'Would a later train get you to work on time?' asked the inspector.  
'I suppose it would, but I never catch a later train.'  
'At what time did you arrive at the station?'  
'At ten to eight. I bought a paper and waited for the train.'  
'And you didn't notice anything unusual?'  
'Of course not.'  
'I suggest,' said the inspector, 'that you are not telling the truth. I suggest __that you did not catch the 8 o'clock train__, but __that you caught the 8.25 which would still get you to work on time__. You see, on the morning of the murder, the 8 o'clock train did not run at all. It broke down at Ferngreen station and was taken off the line.'

## Key Structure

- 复习课

- 平行结构
    - __The English, the Germans, the Dutch and the French__ were investing in Britain' former colony.
    - 平行的成分: 词性相同，形式一致
    - 平行的连接: 并列连词/逗号
    - We resolve to get up earlier each morning, eat less, find more time to play with children, do a thousand and one jobs about the house, be nice to people we don't like, drive carefully, __and__ take the dog for a walk every day.

# Lesson 88 Trapped in a mine

## text
{% meting "28258410" "netease" "song" %}

Why is the rescue taking so long?

Six men have been trapped in a mine for seventeen hours. If they are not brought to the surface soon they may lose their lives. However, rescue operations are proving difficult. If explosives are used, vibrations will cause the roof of the mine to collapse. Rescue workers are therefore drilling a hole on the north side of the mine. They intend to bring the men up in a special capsule. If there had not been a hard layer of rock beneath the soil, they would have completed the job in a few hours. As it is, they have been drilling for sixteen hours and they still have a long way to go. Meanwhile, a microphone, which was lowered into the mine two hours ago, has enabled the men to keep in touch with their closest relatives. Though they are running out of food and drink, the men are cheerful and confident that will get out soon. They have been told that rescue operations are progressing smoothly. If they knew how difficult it was to drill through the hard rock, they would lose heart.

## Key Structure

- if 条件状语从句
    - 跟if的是从句，另一个是主句
    - 真实条件句
    - 虚拟条件句

- if 条件状语从句(真实条件句)

| | if从句 | 主句 |
|-|--------|-----|
|假设过去|过去的各种时态|过去将来时|
|假设现在|现在的各种时态|一般将来时|
|假设将来|一般现在时（代替将来）|一般将来时|

- if 条件状语从句(虚拟条件句)

|时间范围| if 从句 |      | 主句 |
|-------|---------|------|------|
|假设过去| had done| would | + have done |
|假设现在| did/were | could | + do |
|假设将来| did/were | should | +do |
|假设将来| were to do | might |   |
|假设将来| should do |        |   |

# Lesson 89 A slip of the tongue

## text
{% meting "28258411" "netease" "song" %}

Who made the only funny joke that evening and why?

People will do anything to see a free show -- even if it is a bad one. When the news got round that a comedy show would be presented at our local cinema by the P. and U. Bird Seed Company, we all rushed to see it. We had to queue for hours to get in and there must have been several hundred people present just before the show began. Unfortunately, the show was one of the dullest we have ever seen. Those who __failed__ to get in __need not have felt__ disappointed, as many of the artistes who __should have appeared__ did not come. The only funny things we heard that evening came from the advertiser at the beginning of the programme. He was obviously very nervous and for some minutes stood awkwardly before the microphone. As soon as he opened his mouth, everyone burst out laughing. We all know what the poor man _should_ have said, but what he _actually_ said was:'This is the Poo and Ee Seed Bird Company. Good ladies, evening and gentlemen!'

## Key Structure

- 复习情态动词或词组
    - must / have to / should / need
    - 不表示动作，表示情态
    - 表示推测
    - 表示虚拟
        - need have done
        - should have done = ought to have done
        - would have done
        - could have done
        - might have done
    - 后面加动词原形
    - must / have to | will / would
    - may / might | can / could
    - should / ought to | need

- 复习三大从句

- 分裂结构
    - 后移
        - When __the news__ got round __that a comedy show would be presented at our local cinema by the P. and U. Bird Seed Company__, we all rushed to see it.
            - When __the news__ __that a comedy show would be presented at our local cinema by the P. and U. Bird Seed Company__ got round, we all rushed to see it.
        - When __reports__ came into London Zoo __that a wild puma had been spotted forty-five miles south of London__, they were not taken seriously.
    - 插入
        - This, __however__, is not the best solution.
        - This, __he says__, is not the best solution.
        - They have all been put to shame by a boy who, __while playing truant__, travelled 1,600 miles.
        - When he woke up next morning, he discovered that the boat had, __in the meantime__, travelled to Calais.
    
# Lesson 90 What's for supper?

## text
{% meting "28258412" "netease" "song" %}

What kind of fish are they?

Fish and chips has always been a favourite dish in Britain, but as the oceans have been overfished, fish has become more and more expensive. So __it__ comes as a surprise __to learn that giant fish are terrifying the divers on North Sea oil rigs__. Oil rigs have to be repaired frequently and divers, who often have to work in darkness a hundred feet under water, have been frightened out of their wits by giant fish bumping into them as they work. Now they have had special cages made to protect them from these monsters. The fish are not sharks or killer whales, but favourite eating varieties like cod and skate which grow to unnatural sizes, sometimes as much as twelve feet in length. Three factors have caused these fish to grow so large: the warm water round the hot oil pipes under the sea; the plentiful supply of food thrown overboard by the crews on the rigs; the total absence of fishing boats around the oil rigs. As a result, the fish just eat and eat and grow and grow in the lovely warm water. Who eats who? 

## key Structure

- 复习 have 用法
- 复习it形式主语/ to do 作真正主语
- 复习非限定性定语从句
- 标点: 冒号 / 分号

- 主语的变化: 
    1. 名词/代词
    2. doing
        - __Fishing__ (非谓语动词) is my favorite sport.
    3. to do
        - __It__ was his job __to repair bicycles__.
        - ...so __it__ was easier for the detective __to watch her__.
        - So __it__ comes as a surprise __to learn that giant fish are terrifying the divers on North Sea oil rigs__. 
    4. 并列多个
        - __A young man and a young woman__ were sitting behind me.
        - __A quiet day's fishing, or eight hours in a cinema seeing the same film over and over again__, is usually as far as they get.
        - 有时算单数
            - __Fish and chips__ has always been a favourite.
            - bread and butter
            - bacon and eggs
            - a knife and fork
    5. 从句
        - __It__ was obvious __that he was very embarrassed__.
        - __It__ is said __that if anyone touches the tree, he will have bad luck; if he picks a leaf, he will die__.
        - ...__it__ was fortunate __that we didn't have to carry him__.

# Lesson 91 Three men in a basket

## text
{% meting "28258413" "netease" "song" %}

Where was the station's Commanding Officer?

A pilot noticed a balloon which seemed to be making for a Royal Air Force Station nearby. He informed the station at once, but no one there was able to explain the mystery. The officer in the control tower was very angry when he heard the news, because balloons can be a great danger to aircraft. He said that someone might be spying on the station and the pilot was ordered to keep track of the strange object. The pilot managed to circle the ballon for some time. He could make out three men in a basket under it and one of them was holding a pair of binoculars. When the ballon was over the station, the pilot saw one of the men taking photographs. Soon afterwards, the ballon began to descend and it landed near an airfield. The police were called in, but they could not arrest anyone, for the basket contained two Members of Parliament and the Commanding Officer of the station! As the Commanding Officer explained later, one half of the station did not know what the other half was doing!

## Key Structure

- 复习 can / be able to / manage to do
    - can / be able to
        - 相同点：都表示能力，“能够”（be able to 时态比 can / could 更灵活）
        - 不同点：
            - 表示过去已经成功做到的，用 was / were able to, 不用 could
            - can 还可以表示猜测，允许
        - 区别:
            - could do (过去能做，不知道是否做到了)
            - was/were able to do (过去能做，并且做到了)
            - managed to do (过去能做，并且做到了)

- make 搭配的词组:
    - A balloon seemed to be __making for__ a Royal Air Force Station.
    - He could __make out__(看出) three men in a basket.
    - Please __make out__(做出) a fresh copy.
    - I could not __make out__(理解) what he said.
    - He __made up__(编造) a story about two men and a horse.
    - She spends hours __making up__(化妆) in front of the mirror.
    - I must __make up__(补偿) for the time I lost this morning.
    - 练习
        - I lost my lecture notes and had to make __out__ a new set.
        - When it got dark we make __for__ home.
        - How can you make __up__ all those lessons you missed?


# Lesson 92 Asking for trouble

## text
{% meting "28258414" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the policeman ask the writer to come to the police station?

It must have been about two in the morning when I returned home. I tried to wake up my wife by ringing the doorbell, but she was fast asleep, so I got a ladder from the shed in the garden, put it against the wall, and began climbing towards the bedroom window. I was almost there when a sarcastic voice below said, 'I don't think the windows need cleaning at this time of the night.' I looked down and nearly fell off the ladder when I saw a policeman. I immediately regretted answering in the way I did, but I said, 'I enjoy cleaning windows at night.'  
'So do I,' answered the policeman in the same tone. 'Excuse my interrupting you. I hate to interrupt a man when he's busy working, but would you mind coming with me to the station?'  
'Well, I'd prefer to stay here,' I said. 'You see, I've forgotten my key.'  
'Your what?' he called.  
'My key,' I shouted.  
Fortunately, the shouting woke up my wife who opened the window just as the policeman had started to climb towards me.

## Key Structure

- 复习 doing 的用法

- 否定前移
    - I __don't think__ the windows need cleaning at this time of the night.
        - I think the windows __don't need__ cleaning at this time of the night.
    - 我认为你不是错的。
        - I don't think you are wrong.
    - 去年他相信这个计划将不会失败。
        - Last year he didn't believe that the plan would fail.

- So do I
    - 我也这样做(我也是)
    - So + 助动词 + sb. “某人也是。”
    - I can swim.
        - So can I.
    - I felt excited after the party.
        - So did I.
- Neither + 助动词 + sb “某人也不是”
    - I don't like my job.
        - Neither do I.
    - I will not miss the meeting.
        - Neither will I / the candidates.

# Lesson 93 A noble gift

## text
{% meting "28258415" "netease" "song" %}

Where was the Statue of Liberty made?

One of the most famous monuments in the world, the Statue of Liberty, was presented to the United States of America in the nineteenth century by the people of France. The great statue, which was designed by the sculptor Auguste Bartholdi, took ten years to complete. The actual figure was made of copper supported by a metal framework which had been especially constructed by Eiffel. Before it could be transported to the United States, a site had to be found for it and a pedestal had to be built. The site chosen was an island at the entrance of New York Harbour. By 1884, a statue which was 151 feet tall had been erected in Paris. The following year, it was taken to pieces and sent to America. By the end of October 1886, the statue had been put together again and it was officially presented to the American people by Bartholdi. Ever since then, the great monument has been a symbol of liberty for the millions of people who have passed through New York Harbour to make their homes in America.

## Key Structure

- 复习表示被动
    - be done 被动语态 谓语动词
    - done 过去分词 非谓语动词

- 复习被动语态
    - be + done
        - be
            - 被动的时间
            - 主语的单复数
        - done
            - 被动的动作

| | 不同时态对应不同的被动语态 |
|-|-------------------------|
|一般过去时| was/were + done |
|一般现在时| am/is/are + done|
|一般将来时| will be + done  |
|过去将来时| would be + done | 
|过去进行时| was/were being + done |
|现在进行时| am/is/are being + done|
|过去完成时| had been + done  |
|现在完成时| have/has been + done | 

# Lesson 94 Future champions

## text
{% meting "28258416" "netease" "song" %}

What kind of race do the children compete in?

Experiments have proved that children can be instructed in swimming at a very early age. At a special swimming pool in Los Angeles, children become expert at holding their breath under water even before they can walk. Babies of two months old do not appear to be reluctant to enter the water. It is not long before they are so accustomed to swimming that they can pick up weights from the floor of the pool. A game __that is very popular with these young swimmers__ is the underwater tricycle race. Tricycles are lined up on the floor of the pool seven feet under water. The children compete against each other to reach the other end of the pool. Many pedal their tricycles, but most of them prefer to push or drag them. Some children can cover the whole length of the pool without coming up for breath even once. Whether they will ever become future Olympic champions, only time will tell. Meanwhile, they should encourage those among us who cannot swim five yards before they are gasping for air. 

## Key Structure

- 五步阅读法
    1. 初读 -- 测试自己的水平/时间感/猜词能力
        - 不查生词
        - 按时做题
    2. 查读 -- 单词的积累
        - 把生词记录在生词本上
    3. 精读 -- 语法的巩固
        - 分析长难句
    4. 复读 -- 阅读的提高
        - 搞懂整篇文章
    5. 选读 -- 写作的基础
        - 摘抄好句子


# Lesson 95 A fantasy

## text
{% meting "28258417" "netease" "song" %}

Why was the Ambassador particularly lucky?

When the Ambassador of Escalopia returned home for lunch, his wife got a shock. He looked pale and his clothes were in a frightful state.  
'What has happened?' she asked. 'How did your clothes get into such a mess?'  
'A fire extinguisher, my dear,' answered the Ambassador drily. 'University students set the Embassador on fire this morning.'  
'Good heavens!' exclaimed his wife. 'And where were you at the time?'  
'I was in my office as usual,' answered the Ambassador. 'The fire broke out in the basement. I went down immediately, of course, and that fool, Horst, aimed a fire extinguisher at me. He thought I was on fire. I must definitely get that fellow posted.'  
The Ambassador's wife went on asking questions, when she suddenly noticed a big hole in her husband's hat.  
'And how can you explain _that_?' she asked.  
'Oh, that,' said the Ambassador. 'Someone fired a shot through my office window. Accurate, don't you think? Fortunately, I wasn't wearing it at the time. If I had been, I would not have been able to get home for lunch.'

## Key Structure

- 时间状语从句
    - When the Ambassador of Escalopia returned home for lunch, his wife got a shock.

- 状语从句
    - 含义: 一个句子作状语，表达描述性的信息。对主句进行补充。
    - 位置: 
        - __When he comes back__, I will let you know.
        - I will let you know, __When he comes back__.
        - I, __When he comes back__, will let you know.
    - 写法:
        - 主句 + 从属连词 + 完整的陈述句
    - 分类: 由从属连词决定
        1. __时间状语从句__
            - when, while, as, before, after, since, until, as soon as...
        2. 地点状语从句
            - where
        3. __原因状语从句__
            - because, since, as
        4. __结果状语从句__
            - so/such... that, so that...
        5. 目的状语从句
            - so that..., in order that...
        6. __条件状语从句__
            - if, unless
        7. __让步状语从句__
            - although, though, even though, even if
        8. 比较状语从句
            - than, as
        9. 方式状语从句
            - as

# Lesson 96 The dead return

## text
{% meting "28258418" "netease" "song" %}

What happens to the lanterns at the end of the festival?

A festival for the Dead is held once a year in Japan. This festival is a cheerful occasion, for on this day, the dead are said to their homes and they are welcomed by the living. As they are expected to be hungry after their long journey, food is laid out for them. Specially-made lanterns are hung outside each house to help the dead to find their way. All night long, people dance and sing. In the early morning, the food __that had been laid out for the dead__ is thrown into a river or into the sea __as it is considered unlucky for anyone living to eat it__. In towns that are near the sea, the tiny lanterns which had been hung in the streets the night before, are placed into the water when the festival is over. Thousands of lanterns slowly drift out to sea guiding the dead on their return journey to the other world. This is a moving spectacle, for crowds of people stand on the shore watching the lanterns drifting away until they can be seen no more.

## Key Structure

- 分析长难句的关键:
    - 谓语动词
    - 连词

