---
title: 《新概念英语二》55-60笔记
date: 2022-02-08 14:55:19
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 61 Trouble with the Hubble

## text
{% meting "28258383" "netease" "song" %}

What is the special importance of a telescope in space?

The Hubble telescope was launched into space by NASA on April 20, 1990 at a cost of over a billion dollars. Right from the start there was trouble with the Hubble. The pictures it sent us were very disappointing because its main mirror was faulty! NASA is now going to put the telescope right, so it will soon be sending up four astronauts to repair it. The shuttle _Endeavour_ will be taking the astronauts to the Hubble. A robot-arm from the _Endeavour_ will grab the telescope and hold it while the astronauts make the necessary repairs. Of course, the Hubble is above the earth's atmosphere, so it will soon be sending us the clearest pictures of the stars and distant galaxies that we have ever seen. The Hubble will tell us a great deal about the age and size of the universe. By the time you read this, the Hubble's eagle ete will have sent us thousands and thousands of wonderful pictures.

## Key Structure

- 将来完成时 will/shall have done
    1. by + 将来的时间
        - He __will have arrived__ by this time tomorrow.
        - He will phone us later today. He __will have received__ his exam results __by then__.
    2. by the time + 一般现在时的句子(表示将来)
        - The conference __will have lasted__ a full week __by the time it ends__.
        - __By the time he arrives in Beijing__, we __will have stayed__ here for two days.
- 将来进行时
    - I __will be writing__ letters all day tomorrow.
- 将来完成进行时 will/shall have been doing
    - By Friday midday, the __will have been working__ on it for seven days.
- 练习
    - By next Sunday, the __will have finished__(finish) all the preparation.
    - They __will have been preparing__ for a month.

- 分析长难句的步骤
    1. 准备：数谓语动词
    2. 断开：标点 / 连接词 / 分析主谓

# Lesson 62 After the fire

## text
{% meting "28258384" "netease" "song" %}

What was the danger to the villages after the fire?

Firemen had been fighting the forest fire for nearly three weeks before they could get it under control. A short time before, great trees had covered the countryside for miles around. Now, smoke still rose up from the warm ground over the desolate hills. Winter was coming on and the hill threatened the surrounding villages with destruction, for heavy rain would not only wash away the soil but would cause serious floods as well. When the fire had at last been put out, the forest authorities ordered several tons of a special type of grass-seed which would grow quickly. The seed was sprayed over the ground in huge quantities by airplanes. The planes had been planting seed for nearly a month when it began to rain. By then, however, in many places the grass had already taken root. In place of the great trees which had been growing there for centuries, patches of green had begun to appear in the blackened soil.

## Key Structure

- 过去完成时
    - 形式：had done
    - 用法：过去的之前，强调事情完成的结果
- 过去完成进行时
    - 形式：had been doing
    - 用法：过去的之前，强调事情进行的过程

|两种时态|过去完成时 had done | 过去完成进行时 had been doing |
|-------|-------------------|------------------------------|
|角度相同|“过去的之前”|“过去的之前”|
|强调不同|强调完成的结果(做完与否都可以)|强调持续进行的过程|
|例句|Firemen __had put__ out the fire.|Firemen __had been fighting__ the fire for three weeks.|

- great vs. big
    - great 还包含重要性
    - 仅表示大

- 复习表示过去的时态
    - 一般过去时 did
    - 过去进行时 was/were doing 进行
    - 过去将来时 would do 之后
    - 过去完成时 had done 之前 + 结果
    - 过去完成进行时 had been doing 之前 + 过程

# Lesson 63

## text
{% meting "28258385" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Jenny want to leave the wedding reception?

Jeremy Hampden has a large circle of friends and is very popular at parties. Everybody admires him for his great sense of humour - everybody, that is, except his six-year-old daughter, Jenny. Recently, one of Jeremy's closet friends asked him to make a speech at a wedding reception. This is the sort of thing that Jeremy lovers. He prepared the speech carefully and went to the wedding with Jenny. He had included a large number of funny stories in the speech and, of course, it was a great success. As soon as he had finished, Jenny told him she wanted to go home. Jeremy was a little disappointed by this but he did as his daughter asked. On the way home, he asked Jenny if she had enjoyed the speech. To his surprise, she said she hadn't. Jeremy asked her why this was so and she told him that she did not like to see so many people laughing at him! 

## Key Structure

- 复习课
    - n. + that 从句
    - 定语从句 or 同位语从句
        - We have no idea __that the boss has been back__.(同位语从句,that后不缺成分)
        - It is the most interesting movie __that I have ever seen__.(定语从句)

- 直接引语变间接引语(宾语从句)
    - He says, 'I am a fool.'
        - He says __(that) he is a fool.__
    - 'Stay to lunch,' he insisted.(''内没有主语)
        - He insisted that __I should stay to lunch__.
    - 'Come with me,' he suggested.
        - He suggested that __I should go with him__.
    - 'Open the door for me please,' she said to me.
        - She asked me to __open the door for her__.
    - 'Don't make so much noise,' she said to the children.
        - She asked/told them not to __make so much noise__.

# Lesson 64 The Channel Tunnel

## text
{% meting "28258386" "netease" "song" %}

Why was the first tunnel not completed?

In 1858, a French engineer, Aime Thome de Gamond, arrived in England with a plan for a twenty-one-mile tunnel under the English Channel. He said that it would be possible to build a platform in the centre of the Channel. This platform would serve as a port and a railway station. The tunnel would be well-ventilated if tall chimneys were built above sea level. In 1860, a better plan was put forward by an Englishman, William Low. He suggested that a double railway-tunnel should be built. This would solve the problem of ventilation, for if a train entered this tunnel, it would draw in fresh air behind it. Forty-two years later a tunnel was actually begun. If, at the time, the British had not feared invasion, it would have been completed. The world had to wait almost another 100 years for the Channel Tunnel. It was officially opened on March 7, 1994, finally connecting Britain to the European continent.

## Key Structure

| | if从句 | 主句 |
|-|--------|-----|
|假设过去|过去的各种时态|过去将来时|
|假设现在|现在的各种时态|一般将来时|
|假设将来|一般现在时(代替将来)|一般将来时|

- suggest 表示“建议”，其后宾语从句要虚拟
    - 从句中谓语动词 = (should) + 动词原形
- 表示 “建议/命令/要求”的动词后，宾语从句要虚拟
    - suggest, advise, propose, recommend / order / ask, demand, insist, request ...
- 宾语从句的虚拟
    - The engineers proposed that they __should look__ the design again.
    - The professor recommended we __should look__ for the information in the library.
    - The teacher always suggests the students __should go__ over the text before the test.
    - The workers demanded they __should be given__ the wages they should get.

- If 虚拟条件句 假设现在
    - if 从句
        - 一般现在时 did (were-只能用were)
    - 主句 
        - could + do
        - would + do
        - should + do
        - might + do
- if 虚拟条件句 假设过去
    - if 从句
        - 过去完成时 had done
    - 主句
        - could + have done
        - would + have done
        - should + have done
        - might + have done
    - Years ago __if__ someone __had turned__ round to me and said "in two years you'll be England captain", I __would have turned__ round and said, "I don't think so!"
    - 例子
        - 真实
            - I didn't tell her the result. She didn't know it.
        - 虚拟
            - __If__ I __had told__ her result, she __would have known__ it.
        - 真实
            - He was not a student, so he couldn't attend the lecture.
        - 虚拟
            - __If__ he __had been__ a student, he __could have attended__ the lecture.
        - 真实
            - We were late, so we missed the appointment.
        - 虚拟
            - __If__ we __had not been__ late, we __would not have missed__ the appointment.

- if 虚拟条件句 （假设将来）
    - if 从句 
        - did (were)
        - were to do
        - should do
    - 主句
        - could + do
        - would + do
        - should + do
        - might + do
    - If I __had/were/ to have/should/ have__ time tomorrow, I __would discuss__ the new plan with you.
    - If I __lived/were to live/should live__ my life over again, I __would have__ you as my wife.

# Lesson 65 Jumbo versus the police

## text
{% meting "28258387" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the police have to push Jumbo off the main street?

Last Christmas, the circus owner, Jimmy Gates, decided to take some presents to a children's hospital. Dressed up as Father Christmas and accompanied by a 'guard of honour' of six pretty girls, he set off down the main street of the city riding a baby elephant called Jumbo. He should have known that the police would never allow this sort of thing. A policeman approached Jimmy and told him he ought to have gone along a side street as Jumbo was holding up the traffic. Though Jimmy agreed to go at once, Jumbo refused to move. Fifteen policemen had to push very hard to get him off the main street. The police had a difficult time, but they were most amused. 'Jumbo must weigh a few tons,' said a policeman after wards, 'so it was fortunate that we didn't have to carry him. Of course, we should arrest him, but as he has good record, we shall let him off this time.'

## Key Structure

- 复习 must / have to

- 复习非谓语动词

- 情态动词的虚拟
    - should / ought to + have done

- should do / should have done
    - should do = ought to do
        - 现在应该做，可以真的去做 真实表达！
    - should have done = ought to have done
        - 过去本应该做，但实际没做 虚拟表达！

- 练习
    - He __should/ought to come__ at 4 o'clock if the plane arrivers on time.
    - She __should/ought to have come__ to see me yesterday, but she forgot.

- 短语动词 let
    - As he has a good record, we shall __let__ him __off__ this time.
    - I expected him to help me, but he __let__ me __down__.
    - If anyone knocks at the door when I am out, don't __let__ him __in__.
    - Who __let__ the dog __out__?


# Lesson 66 Sweet as honey!

## text
{% meting "28258388" "netease" "song" %}

What was 'sweet as honey' and why?

In 1963 a Lancaster bomber crashed on Wallis Island, a remote place in the South Pacific, a long way west of Samoa. The plane wasn't too badly damaged, but over the years, the crash was forgotten and the wreck remained undisturbed. Then in 1989, twenty-six years after the crash, the plane was accidentally rediscovered in an aerial survey of the island. By this time, a Lancaster bomber in reasonable condition was rare and worth rescuing. The French authorities had the plane packaged and moved in parts back to France. Now a group of enthusiasts are going to have the plane restored. It has four Rolls-Royce Merlin engines, but the group will need to have only three of them rebuilt. Imagine their surprise and delight when they broke open the packing cases and found that the fourth engine was sweet as honey - still in perfect condition. A colony of bees had turned the engine into a hive and it was totally preserved in beeswax!

## Key Structure

- 比较：do / have sth. done
    - I __wash__ my car.
    - I __have__ my car __washed__.
- have 使役动词
    - have sth. done 使某事被做(不用自己亲自做，让比人做)
    - She __asked__ somebody to value her house.
        - She __had__ her house valued.
    - He __will ask__ somebody to paint the house for him.
        - He __will have__ the house painted.
    - I __must ask__ someone to photocopy this letter.
        - I __must have__ this letter photocopied.
    - Sally __will have to ask__ someone to repair her car.
        - Sally __will have to have__ her car repaired.
