---
title: 《新概念英语二》13-18笔记
date: 2022-01-22 16:00:19
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 13 The Greenwood Boys

## text

{% meting "28258275" "netease" "song" %}

Why will the police have a difficult time?

The Greenwood Boys are a group of pop singers. At present, they are visiting all parts of the country. The will be arriving here tomorrow. They will be coming by train and most of the young people in the town will be meeting them at the station. Tomorrow evening they will be singing at the Workers' Club. The Greenwood Boys will be staying for five days. During this time, they will give five performances. As usual, the police will have a difficult time. They will be trying to keep order. It is always the same on these occasions.

## Key Structure

- 将来进行时
    - 形式 
        - will be doing 
        - shall be doing (只能用于第一人称)
    - 用法: 将来某时正在进行/确定要发生的将来
        - I __will be waiting__ here at 10:00 tomorrow.
        - They __will be coming__ by train.
    - 变否定/疑问
        - They __will not be coming__ by train.
        - __Will__ they __be coming__ by train?
    - 与一般将来时的区别
        - 一般将来时
            - 泛泛的表示将来的事
            - 不一定会发生
        - 将来进行时
            - 强调正在进行
            - 强调确定要发生
- 名词所有格

# Lesson 14 Do you speak English?

## text 

{% meting "28258276" "netease" "song" %}

Did the young man speak English?

I had an amusing experience last year. After I had left a small village in the south of France, I drove on to the next town. On the way, a young man waved to me. I stopped and he asked me for a lift. As soon as he had got into the car, I said good morning to him in French and he replied in the same language. Apart from a few words, I do not know any French at all. Neither of us spoke during the journey. I had nearly reached the town, when the young man suddenly said, very slowly, 'Do you speak English?' As I soon learnt, he was English himself!

## Key Structure

- 过去完成时
    - 形式: had + done
    - 用法: 过去的之前（关键在于看待事物的角度）
        - 全部完成
        - 部分完成
        - When he got there, she was not there. She __had left__.
    - 变否定\疑问
        - She __had not left__.
        - __Had__ she __left__?
        - What __had__ she __done__?
    - vs 现在完成时
        - It is 10:00. I __have waited__ for 2 hours.
        - It was 10:00 i __had waited__ for 2 hours.
- 过去完成时与一般过去时的搭配使用
    - When he __got__ there, she __had left__.
        - __got__
            - 一般过去时
            - 过去
            - 后
        - __had left__
            - 过去完成时
            - 过去的之前
            - 前
    - He finished work. He went home.
        - After he __finished__ work, he __went__ home.
        - After he __had finished__ work, he __went__ home.
        - He __went__ home, after he __had finished__ work.
    - He finished lunch. He asked for a glass of water.
        - When he __finished__ lunch, he __asked__ for a glass of water.
        - When he __had finished__ lunch, he __asked__ for a glass of water.
    - The sun set. We returned to our hotel.
        - As soon as the sun __had set__, we __returned__ to our hotel.

- neither of ...(两者都不) / none of ...(都不)
    - __Neither of__ the twins liked sleeping during teh daytime. 
    - __None of__ the leaves can be green forever.

# Lesson 15 Good news

## text
{% meting "28258310" "netease" "song" %}

What was the good news?

The secretary told me that Mr.Harmsworth would see me. I felt very nervous when I went into his office. He did not look up from his desk when I entered. After I had sat down, he said that business was very bad. He told me that the firm could not afford to pay such large salaries. Twenty people had already left. I knew that my turn had come.  
'Mr.Harmsworth,' I said in a weak voice.  
'Don't interrupt,' he said.  
Then he smiled and told me I would receive an extra thousand pounds a year!

## Key Structure

- 直接引语 变 间接引语(宾语从句)
    - 他说：“我是笨蛋。”
        - 他说我是笨蛋。（错）
        - 他说他是笨蛋。
    - He says, 'I am a fool.'
        - He says __(that) he is a fool.__
    - He said, 'I am a fool.'
        - He said __(that) he was a fool.__
    - He said, 'I will go to Italy.'
        - He said __(that) he would go to Italy.__
    - He said, 'I went to Italy.'
        - He said __(that) he had gone__ to Italy.

- 练习
    - told 后面接人，said 后面接事
    - He __told__ that she __would come__ the next day.
    - He __said__ he __cloud not__ understand me.
    - I __told__ you I __had__ never played tennis before.
    - He __said__ that he __was working/worked/had worked__ all day yesterday.
    - Why __did__ you __say__ that you __were/had been__ busy?


# Lesson 16 A polite request

## text
{% meting "28258314" "netease" "song" %}

What was the polite request?

If you park you car in the wrong place, a traffic policeman will soon find it. You will be very lucky if he lets you go without a ticket. However, this does not always happen. Traffic police are sometimes very polite. During a holiday in Sweden, I found this note on my car:'Sir, we welcome you to our city. This is a "No Parking" area. You will enjoy your stay here if you pay attention to our street signs. This note is only a reminder.' If you receive a request like this, you cannot fail to obey it!

## Key Structure
- 状语从句
    - 一个句子做状语，一个句子做描述性信息
    - You will miss the train, __if you don't hurry__.
    - __When he was driving ...__, he saw two thieves...
    - I can't go with you, __because I don't have time__.
- if 条件状语从句(主句都是将来时)
    
    - 真实条件句
        - 假设过去
            - __If tall chimneys were built above sea level__, the tunnel would be well-ventilated.
        - 假设现在
            - __If he is out__, I will call him tomorrow.
            - __If he is working__, I won't disturb him.
        - 假设将来
            - __If it rains tomorrow__, we will stay at home.(假设未来也只能用一般现在时)

        | | if从句 | 主句 |
        |-|--------|-----|
        |假设过去|过去的各种时态|过去将来时|
        |假设现在|现在的各种时态|一般将来时|
        |假设将来|一般现在时（代替将来）|一般将来时|

        - 主句的变化
            - If it rains tomorrow, __we will stay at home__.
            - If he finds something wrong, __he may tell you__.
            - If you make a mistake, __correct it__.
        
    - 虚拟条件句

# Lesson 17 Always young

## text
{% meting "28258315" "netease" "song" %}

Why doesn't Aunt Jennifer tell anyone how old she is?

My aunt Jennifer is an actress. She must be at least thirty-five years old. In spite of this, she often appears on the stage as a young girl. Jennifer will have to take part in a new play soon. This time, she will be a girl of seventeen. In the play, she must appear in a bright red dress and long black stockings. Last year in another play, she had to wear short socks and a bright, orange-coloured dress. If anyone ever asks her how old she is, she always answers, 'Darling, it must be terrible to be grown up!'

## Key Structure

- 情态动词
    - must 后面接原型
        - 表示推测“肯定，一定”
            - She __must be__ 35 years old.
            - You __must be__ the new teacher.
            - 推测过去
                - It __must have rained__ last night.
                - She __must have cried__ just now.
        - 表示不可避免的义务“必须”
            - I __must do__ it now.
            - She __must do__ it now.
            - You __must do__ it tomorrow.
    - have to (都是必须的意思，但有客观条件下的必须-不得不)
        - I __have to__ do it now.
        - She __has to__ do it now.
        - You __will have to do__ it tomorrow.
        - They __had to__ do it yesterday.
    - may / might
    - can / could
    - will / would
    - shall / should
    
# Lesson 18 He often does this

## text
{% meting "28258317" "netease" "song" %}

What had happened to the writer's bag?

After I had had lunch at a village pub, I looked for my bag. I had left it on a chair beside the door and now it wasn't there! As I was looking for it, the landlord came in.  
'Did you have a good meal?' he asked.  
'Yes, thank you,' I answered, 'but I can't pay the bill. I haven't got my bag.'  
The landlord smiled and immediately went out. In a few minutes he returned with my bag and gave it back to me.  
'I'm very sorry,' he said. 'My dog had taken it into the garden. He often does this!'

## Key Structure

- have 的用法
    - 实义动词：
        - “有” (own / possess)
            - I have a book.
            - She has a car.
            - He had a surprise.
        - “吃喝玩乐做”
            - have a meal
            - have breakfast
            - have some water
            - have fun
            - have a good time
            - have a swim
        - 变否定
            - I __do not have__ a book.
            - She __does not have__ lunch.
            - He __did not have__ a good time.
    - 助动词（完成时态中）
        - I have received a letter.
        - She has bought a gift.
        - He had left.
        - 表否定
            - I have not received a letter.
            - She has not bought a gift.
            - He had not left.
    - have / has had (现在完成)
    - had had (过去完成)

- give
    - He returned with my bag and __gave__ it back to me.
    - __Give in__ your exercise books to me.(上交)
    - He can't continue fighting. He will soon __give in__.(投降)
    - I __gave away__ my collection of stamps to the little boy.(送走)
    - I have __given up__ smoking.(放弃)
    - Three of our officers __gave__ them __up__ to the enemy.(投降)
    - Will the person who took my ruler please give it __back__ to me.
    - When my children grew up, I gave all their toys __away__.
    - When do we have to give __in__ our composition?
    - We were losing the battle but we did not give __up__.
