---
title: 《新概念英语二》31-36笔记
date: 2022-01-28 10:31:19
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 31 Success story

## text
{% meting "28258352" "netease" "song" %}

What was Frank's first job?

Yesterday afternoon Frank Hawkins was telling me about his experiences as a young man. Before he retired, Frank was the head of a very large business company, but as a boy he used to work in a small shop. It was his job to repair bicycles and at that time he used to work fourteen hours a day. He saved money for years and in 1958 he bought a small workshop of his own. In his twenties Frank used to make spare parts for airplanes. At that time he had two helpers. In a few years the small workshop had become a large factory which employed seven hundred and twenty-eight people. Frank smiled when he remembered his hard early years and the long road to success. He was still smiling when the door opened and his wifi came in. She wanted him to repair their grandson's bicycle!

## Key Structure

- 复习一般过去时/过去进行时

- used to do sth.
    - 过去常常做....

- job / work
    - job 职业
    - work 具体做的事

- it 形式主语，to do sth. 真正主语
    - it 放前能推进语言传递的速度，啰嗦的放后面。
    - __It__ was his job __to repair bicycles__ ...
        - = __To repair bicycles__ was his job ...

    - __It__ is my dream __to travel around the world__
        - = __To travel around the world__ is my dream.

    - __It__ is very important __to study English__.

    - __It__ is necessary __to think about the future__.

# Lesson 32 shopping made easy

## text
{% meting "28258353" "netease" "song" %}

Who was the thief?

People are not so honest as they once were. The temptation to steal is greater than ever before - especially in large shops. A detective recently watched a well-dressed woman who always went into a large store on Monday mornings. One Monday, there were fewer people in the shop than usual when the woman came in, so it was easier for the detective to watch her. The woman first bought a few small articles. After a little time, she chose one of the most expensive dresses in the shop and handed it to an assistant who wrapped it up for her as quickly as possible. Then the woman simply took the parcel and walked out of the shop without paying. When she was arrested, the detective found out that the shop assistant was her daughter. The girl 'gave' her mother a free dress once a week!

## Key Structure

- 形容词 / 副词的原级比较
    - adj./adv.的最高级(+介词短语表示比较的范围)
        - + est / 
        - 通常表示三者或以上的比较
    - 比较对象的多样
        - Her mother is as beautiful as __before__.
        - Her mother is as beautiful as __she was__.
        - Her mother is as beautiful as __she used to be__.
        - Travelling was not as easy as __today__.
        - Travelling was not as easy as __it is today__.
        - I will do it as quickly as __possible__.
        - I will do it as quickly as __I can__.
        - You are as clever as __I think__.
        - The problem was not as complicated as __we thought__.

- 复习形容词 / 副词的比较级和最高级
    - as + 比较的内容 + as + 比较的对象
        - I am __as tall as you__.
        - He works __as hard as before__.
        - I will do it __as quickly as possible__.
    - not + as/so +  比较的内容 + as + 比较的对象
        - 和...相比还不如...
        - People are __not so honest as before__.
        - People are __not so honest as they were__.
        - People are __not so honest as they once were__.

# Lesson 33 Out of the darkness

## text
{% meting "28258354" "netease" "song" %}

Why was the girl in hospital?

Nearly a week passed before the girl was able to explain what had happened to her. One afternoon she set out from the coast in a small boat and was caught in a storm. Toward evening, the boat struck a rock and the girl jumped into the sea. Then she swam to the shore after spending the whole night in the water. During that time she covered a distance of eight miles. Early next morning, she saw a light ahead. She knew she was near the shore because the light was high up on the cliffs. On arriving at the shore, the girl struggled up the cliff towards the light she had seen. That was all she remembered. When she woke up a day latter, she found herself in hospital.

## Key Structure

- 表示地点的介词(prep.)
    - set out __from__ the coast
    - swam __to__ the shore
    - __towards__ the light she had seen
    - jumped __into__  the sea
    - __out of__ darkness
    - arriving __at__ the shore
    - __on__ the cliff
    - __in__ a small boat / __in__ a storm / __in__ hospital
    - Don't throw the rubbish __out of__ the window.
    - Please come __into__ the classroom and join us.
    - He is in shanghai, and he will fly __from__ Shanghai __to__ Beijing.
    - She hopes that she will stand __on__ the top of the highest mountain some day.
    - It is impolite to point __at__ people.
    - I put the laptop __in__ your bag.

- pass / past
    - pass 是个动词
    - past 唯独不能作动词
    - He __passed__ my house this morning.
    - He walked __past__ my house.
    - He tole me about his __past__ experiences.
    - He seem to live in the __past__.


# Lesson 34 Quick work 

## text
{% meting "28258355" "netease" "song" %}

How long had the police taken to find his bicycle?

Dan Robinson has been worried all week. Last Tuesday he received a letter from the local police. In the letter he was asked to call at the station. Dan wondered why he was wanted by the police, but he went to the station yesterday and now he is not worried anymore. At the station, he was told by a smiling policeman that his bicycle had been found. Five days ago, the policeman told him the bicycle was picked up in a small village four hundred miles away. It is now being sent to his home by train. Dan was most surprised when he heard the news. He was amused too, because he never expected the bicycle to be found. It was stolen twenty years ago when Dan was a boy of fifteen!

## Key Structure

- 复习被动语态

- 短语动词 call
    - 喊 -> 打电话 -> 拜访
    - He was asked to __call at__ the station.
    - He __called out__ to me but I did not hear him.
    - I __called on__ George yesterday.
    - She will __call__ you __up__ tomorrow.
    - It began to rain so we __called of__ the match.


# Lesson 35 Stop thief!

## text
{% meting "28258356" "netease" "song" %}

How did Roy stop the thieves?

Roy Trenton used to drive a taxi. A short while ago, however, he became a bus driver and he has not regretted it. He is finding his new work far more exciting. When he was driving along Catford Street recently, he saw two thieves rush out of a shop and run towards a waiting car. One of them was carrying a bag full of money. Roy acted quickly and drove the bus straight at the thieves. The one with the money got such a fright that he dropped the bag. As the thieves were trying to get away in their car, Roy drove his bus into the back of it. While the battered car was moving away,Roy stopped his bus and telephoned the police. The thieves car was badly damaged and easy to recognize. Shortly afterwards, the police stopped the car and both men were arrested.

## Key Structure

- __see__ sb. __do__ sth.
- __see__ sb. __doing__ sth

- __so... that ...__ / __such__ ... __that__ ...
    - 都表示：太...所以... (如此...以至于)
    - It is an interesting story. I want to share it with you.
        - It is __such__ __an interesting stroy__ that I want to share it with you.
    - I am tired. I want to sleep for an entire day.
        - I am __so__ __tired__ __that__ I want to sleep for an entire day.
    - It is a heavy box. I cannot carry it.
        - It is __such__ __a heavy box__ __that__ I cannot carry it.
    - The thieves ran away quickly. I didn't have time to call the police.
        - The thieves ran away __so__ __quickly__ __that__ I didn't have time to call the police.


# Lesson 36 Across the Channel

## text
{% meting "28258357" "netease" "song" %}

What is Debbie going to try to do?

Debbie Hart __is going to swim__ across the English Channel tomorrow. She __is going to set out__ from French coast at five o'clock in the morning. Debbie is only eleven years old and she hopes to set up a new world record. She is a strong swimmer and many people feel that she is sure to succeed. Debbie's father __will set out__ with her in a small boat. Mr.Hart has trained his daughter for years. Tomorrow he __will be watching__ her anxiously __as__ she swims the long distance to England. Debbie intends to take short rests every two hours. She will have something to drink but she will not eat any solid foot. Most of Debbie's school friends will waiting for her on the English coast. Among them will be Debbie's mother, who swam the Channel herself when she was a girl.

## Key Structure

- 复习表示将来的几种方式
    - 一般将来时
        - will / shall do
        - am / is / are going to do
    
    - 将来进行时
        - will / shall be doing

    - 一般现在时
        - do / does

    - 表示将来的词组
        - intend to do

- 限定性的定语从句
    - I met __your friend__ who was staying in Paris.
    - n.范围不确定 -> 要限定 -> 无逗号隔开

- 非限定性定语从句
    - I met __your mother__, who was staying in Paris.
    - n.范围确定 -> 不用限定 -> 有逗号隔开
    - 绝对确定
        - 独一无二的东西
        - 专有名词

- 限定性/非限定性的定语从句
    - This is __the wall which__ they built last week.
    - This is __the Great Wall, which__ is world-famous.
    - He came from Beijing __, which__ is the capital of China.
    - He came from a city __which/that__ is in the north of China.
    - This is the businessman __who/whom/that__ we are cooperating with.
    - This is Bill Gates __, whom__ many people know as the richest man.

- 练习
    - I will tell him the news, when he __comes__ back tomorrow.
    - As soon as the plane __will land__, I wll let you know.

