---
title: 《新概念英语二》1~6笔记
date: 2022-01-17 15:38:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 1 A private conversation

## text

{% meting "28258103" "netease" "song" %}

Wyh did writer complain to the people behind him?

Last week I went to the theatre. I had a very good seat. The play was very interesting. I did not enjoy it. A young man and a young woman were sitting behind me. They were talking loudly. I got very angry. I could not hear the actors. I turned round. I looked at the man and the woman angrily. They did not pay any attention. In the end, I could not hear it. I turned round again. 'I can't hear a word!'I said angrily.
  'It's none of your business,'the young man said rudely.'This is a private conversation!' 


## 简单陈述句的分类
|           |      | |
| ------- | ---- | ---|
| They ment. | 主谓 | vi. 不及物 |
| I love you. | 主谓宾 | vt. 及物 |
| I tell you a secret. | 主谓双宾|
| I find you interesting. | 主谓宾补 |
| You are beautiful. | 主系表 | 系动词(没有实际的动作)|

---
### 系动词
1. be动词（单独出现）
2. get、become、turn、go、grow -(表示)> “变得”
3. look sound smell taste feel -> “看起来、听起来、闻起来、品尝起来、感觉起来”

---
### 句子判断
- The play was very interesting. ---主系表
- They were talking loudly. ---主谓
- I got very angry. ---主系表（见上2）


# Lesson 2 Breakfast or lunch?

## text
{% meting "28258104" "netease" "song" %}

Why was the writer's aunt surprised?

It was Sunday. I never get up early on Sundays.I sometimes stay in bed until lunchtime. Last Sunday I got up very late.I looked out of the window. It was dark outside. 'What a day!' I thought. 'It's raining again.' Just then, the telephone rang. It was my aunt Lucy. 'I've just arrived by train.' she said,'I'm coming to see you.'
    'But i'm still having breakfast,'I said.
    'What are you doing?' she asked.
    'I'm having breakfast,'I repeated.
    'Dear me!'she said. 'Do you always get up so late? It's one o'clock!'


## 时态

- 一般现在时
    - 谓语v. = 原型/第三人称单数(do/does)
    - 第三人称单数 -> he she it，可数名词单数，不可数名词
    - 例句
        - I tell you a secret.
        - He tells you a secret.
        - Your friend tells you a secret.
    - 用法1: 表示现在经常性习惯性的动作
        - We have the English class every day.
        - I never get up early on Sundays.
        - I sometimes stay in bed until lunchtime.
        - He often gets up late.
        - 搭配频率副词
        always, usually, frequently, often, sometimes, seldom, rarely, hardly, never...
    - 用法2: 表示现在的状态
        - I am a teacher.
        - It is one o'clock.
    - 用法3: 表示永恒
        - The earth is round.
        - The earth moves around the sun.
        - Practice makes perfect.
    - 变否定疑问
        ||||
        |-|-|-|
        |He is happy.|You like English.|He likes English.|
        |He is not happy.|You do not like English.|He does not like English.|
        |Is he happy?|Do you like English?|Does he like English?|
        |How is he?|What do you like?|What does he like?|

- 现在进行时
    - 谓语v. = am / is / are + doing 
    - 用法1: 表示现在正在进行的事
        - I am having brekfast now.(狭义的现在，说话的现在)
        - J.K Rowling is writing another book this year.(广义的现在，一个大的时间段)
    - 用法2: 表示将来确定要发生的事
        - I am coming to see you.
        - We are arriving at ...
        - The old man is dying.
    - 变否定疑问
        - He is listening.
        - He is not listening.
        - Is he listening?
        - What is he doing?

## 一般现在时 VS 现在进行时
- I am looking out of my window.
- I can see some children in the street. 
- The children *are playing* football.
- They always *play* football in the street.
- Now a little boy *is kicking* the ball.
- Another boy *is running* after him but he cannot catch him.

## Other
### 感叹句
- What + n./n.词组! ---What a day! 
- How + adj./adv.! ---How interesting!

### it
- It was Sunday. / It's one o'clock! --- 指时间
- It was dark outside. / It's raining again. --- 指天气
- It was my aunt Luck. --- 指不确定的对象

# Lesson 3 Please send me a card

## text
{% meting "28258105" "netease" "song" %}

How many cards did the writer send?

Postcards always spoil my holidays. Last summer, I went to Italy. I visited museums and sat in public gardens. A friendly waiter taught me a few words of Italian. Then he lent me a book. I read a few lines, but I did not understand a word. Every day I thought about postcards. My holidays passed quickly, but I did not send cards to my friends. On the last day I made a big decision. I got up early and bought thirty-seven cards. I spent the whole day in my room, but I did not write a single card!


## 一般过去时
### 形式
V.过去式（did）

### 用法：
- Last summer I went to Italy.
- Mary and I **talked** about you book hours ago.
- They **had** a meeting yesterday.
- Tom **was** a student when he was ten years old.

### 注意事项（过去发生过，但现在不这样了）
- She **had** a boyfriend.
- Tom **was** a student.

### 变否定疑问
- You **were** happy.
- You **were** not happy.
- **Were** you happy?
---
- They **had** a meeting.
- They **did not have** a meeting.
- **Did** they **have** a meeting.

### 主谓双宾
- 哪些及物动词(vt.)能接双宾语?
    send, teach, lend, give, ask, tell, offer, cook, buy, get, make, write, bring, show ...


# lesson 4 An exciting trip

## text
{% meting "28258106" "netease" "song" %}

Why is Tim finding this trip exciting?

I have just received a letter from my brother, Tim. He is in Australia. He has been there for six monthes. Tim is an engineer. He is working for a big firm and he has already visited a great number of different places in Australia. He has just bought an Australian car and has gone to Alice Springs, a small town in the centre of Australia. He will soon visit Darwin. From there, he will fly to Perth. My brother has never been abroad before, so he is finding this trip very exciting.


## Key structure
1. 现在完成时
    - 形式
     
    have/has + done (V.过去分词)
     
    - 用法  
    现在的之前
        1. 现在**全部完成**
        2. 现在**部分完成**  
    - 例句
        - He **has finished** the homework.
        - We **have learned** English for ten years.
    - 变否定疑问
        - He **has not finished** the homework.
        - **Has** he **finished** the homework.
        - What **has** the **done**?
    - 常用搭配
        - just / already / ever / never 
        - yet 
        - so far / up to now / before / lately
        - for + 一段时间
    - 例句
        - I have had breakfast.(just)
        - I have **just** had breakfast.
        - He has been in prison.(for six months)
        - He has been in prison for **six months**.
        - The police have not caught the thief.(yet)
        - The police have not caught the thief **yet**.
        - Have you met him?(ever, before)
        - Have you **ever** met him **before**?
        
2. 同位语

# Lesson 5 No wrong numbers

## text
{% meting "28258107" "netease" "song" %}

What does 'No wrong numbers' mean?

Mr.Janes Scott has a garage in Silbury and now he has just bought another garage in Pinhurst. Pinhurst is only five miles from Silbury, but Mr.Scott cannot get a telephone for his new garage, so he has just bought twelve pigeons. Yesterday, a pigeon carried the first message from Pinhurst to Silbury. The bird covered the distance in three minutes. Up to now, Mr.Scott has sent a great many requests for spare parts and other urgent messages from one garage to the other. In this way, he has begun his own private 'telephone' service.


## Key structure
- 现在完成时
    - 替换规则
        - 现在的之前**全部完成** **可以换成一般过去时**
        - 现在的之前**部分完成** **不可以换成一般过去时**
    - He **has finished** the home work.(现在的之前**全部完成**)
    - We **have learned** English for ten years.(现在的之前**部分完成**)

    - 现在完成时所涉及的时间范围 
        - He **has been** there for six months.
        - He **was** there.
        - He **is** there.
        -   
        - He **has finished** the homework.
        - We **have learned** English for ten years.

- 一般过去时
    - He **finished** the homework.
    - 常用搭配
        - **last** year / month...
        - ten days **ago**
        - yesterday / this morning

- 现在完成时 vs 一般过去时
    - He **has finished** the homework, so he can have a rest now.(强调对现在有影响)
    - He **finished** the homework two hours ago.(强调过去的时间)

    - We **have learned** English for ten years.
    - We **learned** English for ten years.

- way 短语
    - In this way(用这种方法)
    - In the way(挡路了)
    - On the way(去哪里的路上)
    - By the way(顺便说一句)
    - In a way(在某种程度上说)

# Lesson 6 Percy Buttons

## text
{% meting "28258108" "netease" "song" %}

Who is Percy Buttons?

I have just moved to a house in Bridge Street. Yesterday a beggar knocked at my door. He asked me for a meal and a glass of beer. In return for this, the beggar stood on his head and sang songs. I gave him a meal. He ate the food and drank the beer. Then he put a piece of cheese in his pocket and went away. Later a neighbour told me about him. Everybody knows him. His name is Percy Buttons. He calls at every house in the street once a month and always asks for a meal and a glass of beer.


## Key structure
- 冠词
    - 定冠词 the **表示特指**
        - 明确的对象
        - I want **the apple** in your hand.

        - 再次提到的对象
        - **The dog** was really cute.
        
    - 不定冠词 a / an **泛指**
        - 不明确的对象
        - I want **an apple**.

        - 首次提到的对象
        - I saw **a dog** in Bridge Street yesterday.

    - 零冠词 不加冠词

|冠词|泛指|特指|
|---|----|----|
|接可数名词单数|a / an|the|
|接可数名词复数|some / 不加冠词| the|
|接不可数名词|some / 不加冠词| the|