---
title: 《新概念英语二》1~24笔记
date: 2022-02-19 15:16:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 1 A private conversation

## text

{% meting "28258103" "netease" "song" %}

Wyh did writer complain to the people behind him?

Last week I went to the theatre. I had a very good seat. The play was very interesting. I did not enjoy it. A young man and a young woman were sitting behind me. They were talking loudly. I got very angry. I could not hear the actors. I turned round. I looked at the man and the woman angrily. They did not pay any attention. In the end, I could not hear it. I turned round again. 'I can't hear a word!'I said angrily.
  'It's none of your business,'the young man said rudely.'This is a private conversation!' 


## 简单陈述句的分类
|           |      | |
| ------- | ---- | ---|
| They ment. | 主谓 | vi. 不及物 |
| I love you. | 主谓宾 | vt. 及物 |
| I tell you a secret. | 主谓双宾|
| I find you interesting. | 主谓宾补 |
| You are beautiful. | 主系表 | 系动词(没有实际的动作)|

---
### 系动词
1. be动词（单独出现）
2. get、become、turn、go、grow -(表示)> “变得”
3. look sound smell taste feel -> “看起来、听起来、闻起来、品尝起来、感觉起来”

---
### 句子判断
- The play was very interesting. ---主系表
- They were talking loudly. ---主谓
- I got very angry. ---主系表（见上2）


# Lesson 2 Breakfast or lunch?

## text
{% meting "28258104" "netease" "song" %}

Why was the writer's aunt surprised?

It was Sunday. I never get up early on Sundays.I sometimes stay in bed until lunchtime. Last Sunday I got up very late.I looked out of the window. It was dark outside. 'What a day!' I thought. 'It's raining again.' Just then, the telephone rang. It was my aunt Lucy. 'I've just arrived by train.' she said,'I'm coming to see you.'
    'But i'm still having breakfast,'I said.
    'What are you doing?' she asked.
    'I'm having breakfast,'I repeated.
    'Dear me!'she said. 'Do you always get up so late? It's one o'clock!'


## 时态

- 一般现在时
    - 谓语v. = 原型/第三人称单数(do/does)
    - 第三人称单数 -> he she it，可数名词单数，不可数名词
    - 例句
        - I tell you a secret.
        - He tells you a secret.
        - Your friend tells you a secret.
    - 用法1: 表示现在经常性习惯性的动作
        - We have the English class every day.
        - I never get up early on Sundays.
        - I sometimes stay in bed until lunchtime.
        - He often gets up late.
        - 搭配频率副词
        always, usually, frequently, often, sometimes, seldom, rarely, hardly, never...
    - 用法2: 表示现在的状态
        - I am a teacher.
        - It is one o'clock.
    - 用法3: 表示永恒
        - The earth is round.
        - The earth moves around the sun.
        - Practice makes perfect.
    - 变否定疑问
        ||||
        |-|-|-|
        |He is happy.|You like English.|He likes English.|
        |He is not happy.|You do not like English.|He does not like English.|
        |Is he happy?|Do you like English?|Does he like English?|
        |How is he?|What do you like?|What does he like?|

- 现在进行时
    - 谓语v. = am / is / are + doing 
    - 用法1: 表示现在正在进行的事
        - I am having brekfast now.(狭义的现在，说话的现在)
        - J.K Rowling is writing another book this year.(广义的现在，一个大的时间段)
    - 用法2: 表示将来确定要发生的事
        - I am coming to see you.
        - We are arriving at ...
        - The old man is dying.
    - 变否定疑问
        - He is listening.
        - He is not listening.
        - Is he listening?
        - What is he doing?

## 一般现在时 VS 现在进行时
- I am looking out of my window.
- I can see some children in the street. 
- The children *are playing* football.
- They always *play* football in the street.
- Now a little boy *is kicking* the ball.
- Another boy *is running* after him but he cannot catch him.

## Other
### 感叹句
- What + n./n.词组! ---What a day! 
- How + adj./adv.! ---How interesting!

### it
- It was Sunday. / It's one o'clock! --- 指时间
- It was dark outside. / It's raining again. --- 指天气
- It was my aunt Luck. --- 指不确定的对象

# Lesson 3 Please send me a card

## text
{% meting "28258105" "netease" "song" %}

How many cards did the writer send?

Postcards always spoil my holidays. Last summer, I went to Italy. I visited museums and sat in public gardens. A friendly waiter taught me a few words of Italian. Then he lent me a book. I read a few lines, but I did not understand a word. Every day I thought about postcards. My holidays passed quickly, but I did not send cards to my friends. On the last day I made a big decision. I got up early and bought thirty-seven cards. I spent the whole day in my room, but I did not write a single card!


## 一般过去时
### 形式
V.过去式（did）

### 用法：
- Last summer I went to Italy.
- Mary and I **talked** about you book hours ago.
- They **had** a meeting yesterday.
- Tom **was** a student when he was ten years old.

### 注意事项（过去发生过，但现在不这样了）
- She **had** a boyfriend.
- Tom **was** a student.

### 变否定疑问
- You **were** happy.
- You **were** not happy.
- **Were** you happy?
---
- They **had** a meeting.
- They **did not have** a meeting.
- **Did** they **have** a meeting.

### 主谓双宾
- 哪些及物动词(vt.)能接双宾语?
    send, teach, lend, give, ask, tell, offer, cook, buy, get, make, write, bring, show ...


# lesson 4 An exciting trip

## text
{% meting "28258106" "netease" "song" %}

Why is Tim finding this trip exciting?

I have just received a letter from my brother, Tim. He is in Australia. He has been there for six monthes. Tim is an engineer. He is working for a big firm and he has already visited a great number of different places in Australia. He has just bought an Australian car and has gone to Alice Springs, a small town in the centre of Australia. He will soon visit Darwin. From there, he will fly to Perth. My brother has never been abroad before, so he is finding this trip very exciting.


## Key structure
1. 现在完成时
    - 形式
     
    have/has + done (V.过去分词)
     
    - 用法  
    现在的之前
        1. 现在**全部完成**
        2. 现在**部分完成**  
    - 例句
        - He **has finished** the homework.
        - We **have learned** English for ten years.
    - 变否定疑问
        - He **has not finished** the homework.
        - **Has** he **finished** the homework.
        - What **has** the **done**?
    - 常用搭配
        - just / already / ever / never 
        - yet 
        - so far / up to now / before / lately
        - for + 一段时间
    - 例句
        - I have had breakfast.(just)
        - I have **just** had breakfast.
        - He has been in prison.(for six months)
        - He has been in prison for **six months**.
        - The police have not caught the thief.(yet)
        - The police have not caught the thief **yet**.
        - Have you met him?(ever, before)
        - Have you **ever** met him **before**?
        
2. 同位语

# Lesson 5 No wrong numbers

## text
{% meting "28258107" "netease" "song" %}

What does 'No wrong numbers' mean?

Mr.Janes Scott has a garage in Silbury and now he has just bought another garage in Pinhurst. Pinhurst is only five miles from Silbury, but Mr.Scott cannot get a telephone for his new garage, so he has just bought twelve pigeons. Yesterday, a pigeon carried the first message from Pinhurst to Silbury. The bird covered the distance in three minutes. Up to now, Mr.Scott has sent a great many requests for spare parts and other urgent messages from one garage to the other. In this way, he has begun his own private 'telephone' service.


## Key structure
- 现在完成时
    - 替换规则
        - 现在的之前**全部完成** **可以换成一般过去时**
        - 现在的之前**部分完成** **不可以换成一般过去时**
    - He **has finished** the home work.(现在的之前**全部完成**)
    - We **have learned** English for ten years.(现在的之前**部分完成**)

    - 现在完成时所涉及的时间范围 
        - He **has been** there for six months.
        - He **was** there.
        - He **is** there.
        -   
        - He **has finished** the homework.
        - We **have learned** English for ten years.

- 一般过去时
    - He **finished** the homework.
    - 常用搭配
        - **last** year / month...
        - ten days **ago**
        - yesterday / this morning

- 现在完成时 vs 一般过去时
    - He **has finished** the homework, so he can have a rest now.(强调对现在有影响)
    - He **finished** the homework two hours ago.(强调过去的时间)

    - We **have learned** English for ten years.
    - We **learned** English for ten years.

- way 短语
    - In this way(用这种方法)
    - In the way(挡路了)
    - On the way(去哪里的路上)
    - By the way(顺便说一句)
    - In a way(在某种程度上说)

# Lesson 6 Percy Buttons

## text
{% meting "28258108" "netease" "song" %}

Who is Percy Buttons?

I have just moved to a house in Bridge Street. Yesterday a beggar knocked at my door. He asked me for a meal and a glass of beer. In return for this, the beggar stood on his head and sang songs. I gave him a meal. He ate the food and drank the beer. Then he put a piece of cheese in his pocket and went away. Later a neighbour told me about him. Everybody knows him. His name is Percy Buttons. He calls at every house in the street once a month and always asks for a meal and a glass of beer.


## Key structure
- 冠词
    - 定冠词 the **表示特指**
        - 明确的对象
        - I want **the apple** in your hand.

        - 再次提到的对象
        - **The dog** was really cute.
        
    - 不定冠词 a / an **泛指**
        - 不明确的对象
        - I want **an apple**.

        - 首次提到的对象
        - I saw **a dog** in Bridge Street yesterday.

    - 零冠词 不加冠词

|冠词|泛指|特指|
|---|----|----|
|接可数名词单数|a / an|the|
|接可数名词复数|some / 不加冠词| the|
|接不可数名词|some / 不加冠词| the|

# Lesson 7 Too late

## text

{% meting "28258109" "netease" "song" %}

Did the detectives save the diamonds.  

The plane was late and detectives were waiting at the airport all morning. They were expecting a valuable parcel of diamonds from South Africa. A few hours earlier, someone had told the police that thieves would try to steal the diamonds. When the plane arrived, some of the detectives were waiting inside the main building while others were waiting on the airfield. Two man took the parcel off the plane and carried it into the Customs House. While two detectives were keeping guard at the door, two others opened the parcel. To their surprise, the precious parcel was full of stones and stand!

## Key structure
- 过去进行时（常搭配 when / while / as）
    - 形式：was/were/doing
    - 用法：
        - She **was reading** a book at 11:00 last night.
    - 变否定疑问：
        - She was not reading a book ...
        - Was she reading a book ...?
    - where / as 用于持续进行，when无限制
        - **While** they **were sleeping**, a thief **sneaked** in.
        - I **was having** breakfast **when** the telephone **rang**.
- 过去将来时
    - 形式：
        - would do
        - was / were going to do
    - 用法：过去的将来
        - He **said** that he **would travel** abroad next year.

- 陈述句变宾语从句（that引导）
    - You are right.
    - I think **(that) you are right**.


# Lesson 8 The best and the worst

## text
{% meting "28258110" "netease" "song" %}

Why is Joe's garden the most beautiful one in the town?

Joe Sanders has the most beautiful garden in our town. Nearly everybody enters for 'The Nicest Garden Competition' each year, but Joe wins every time. Bill Frith's garden is larger than Joe's. Bill works harder than Joe and grows more flowers and vegetables, but Joe's garden is more interesting. He has made neat paths and has built a wooden bridge over a pool. I like gardens too, but I do not like hard work. Every year I enter for the garden competition too, and I always win a little prize for the garden in the town!

## Key structure

- 形容词 / 副词的作用
    - 形容词(adj.)修饰名词
        - This is a **wonderful** world.
        - We are living in a **beautiful new** house.
        - Their sleeping bags were **warm and comfortable**. 
    - 副词(adv.)修饰 动词 / 句子 / 其他的形容词或副词 
        - Roy acted **quickly**
        - **Suddenly**, one of the children kicked a ball.
        - It rained **continually** and it was often **bitterly** cold.
        - The students from elite universities catch up **very quick**.

- 形容词副词的三种比较级别
    - 原级比较
    - 比较级
        - adj./adv.的比较级 + （than 比较的对象）
        - 通常用于两者之间的比较
        - I am __taller__ than you.
        - Air tickets are __more expensive__ than train tickets.
        - Sometimes machines can perform __better__ than human beings.
    - 最高级
        - adj./adv.的最高级 + （介词短语表示比较的范围）
        - 通常用于三者或以上的比较
        - My younger sister is **the tallest** one in her class.
        - __The most serious__ problem of the project is the lack of power.
        - 如何加介词(in后面是场所，of后是肩并肩的同类)
            - Which is the longest river __in__ the world?
            - This is the finest picture __of__ them all.

# Lesson 9 A cold welcome

## text

{% meting "28258111" "netease" "song" %}

What does 'a cold welcome' refer to?

On Wednesday evening, we went to the Town Hall. It was the last day of the year and a large crowd of people had gathered under the Town Hall clock. It would strike twelve in twenty minutes' time. Fifteen minutes passed and then, at five to twelve, the the clock stopped. The big minute hand did not move. We waited and waited, but nothing happened. Suddenly someone shouted, 'It's two minutes past twelve! The clock has stopped!' I looked at my watch. It was true. The big clock refused to welcome the New Year. At that moment, everybody began to laugh and sing.

## Key Structure
- 介词
    - 介词(prep.)，要接词
    - 名词，代词，动名词(doing)
    - 介词短语
- 表示时间的介词
    - in (在什么大的时间之内)
        - in 1992 / January / summer
        - in the morning / afternoon / evening
        - in twenty minutes' time.(特殊：搭配将来时，表示在多少时间之后)
    - on (搭配天,只要有天就用on)
        - on Monday.
        - on July 7th.
        - on Wednesday evening.
        - on the morning of July 7th.
    - at (接时间点)
        - at 8 o'clock / 8:00
        - at midnight / noon
        - at night
    - before
        - They got the news the day __before__ yesterday.
    - after
        - I will come back here __after__ ten o'clock.
    - since(自从...之后)
        - __Since__ then, Captain Fawcett has flown passengers to many unusual places.
    - until(直到...)
        - I sometimes stay in bed __until__ lunchtime.
    - during(在...时间段内)
        - It rained heavily __during__ the night.
    - for (持续了多久)
        - He has been there __for__ six months.
    - by (截止到...时间)
        - Workers will have completed the new roads __by__ the end of this year.
    - from ... till/to(从开始到结束)
        - The shops are open __from__ 9 __till/to__ 5.

# Lesson 10 Not for jazz

## text
{% meting "28258112" "netease" "song" %}

What happened to the clavichord?

We have an old musical instrument. It is called a clavichord. It was made in Germany in 1681. Our clavichord is kept in the living room. It has belonged to our family for a long time. The instrument was bought by my grandfather many years ago. Recently is was damaged by a visitor. She tried to play jazz on it! She struck the keys too hard and two of the strings were broken. My father was shocked. Now we are not allowed to touch it. It is being repaired by a friend of my father's.

## Key Structure

- 被动语态  
    狗吃了那个蛋糕->蛋糕被狗吃了。  
    - be + done
        - be: 1表示被动的时间，2主语的单复数
        - done: 被动的动作
    - Classrooms __are cleaned__ every day. 
    - The new building __was built__ last year.
    - He __is beaten__ every day.
    - He __was beaten__ yesterday.
    - He __will be beaten__ tomorrow.
    - He __is being beaten__ now.
    - He __has been beaten__.
    - 现在进行时的被动: __am / is / are__ being done
    - 现在完成时的被动: __have / has__ been done
- 名词所有格
    - ' (顺着翻译)
        - the __Workers'__ (以s结尾'后不加s) Club
        - the __children's__ toys
        - twenty __minutes'__ time
    - of (倒过来翻译)
        - the door __of__ the room
        - the use __of__ the data

# Lesson 11 One good turn deserves another

## text
{% meting "28258269" "netease" "song" %}

Who paid for Tony's dinner?

I was having dinner at a restaurant when Tony Steele came in. Tony worked in a lawyer's office years ago, but he is now working at a bank. He gets a good salary, but he always borrows money from his friends and never pays it back. Tony saw me and came and sat at the same table. He has never borrowed money from me. While he was eating, I asked him to lend me twenty pounds. To my surprise, he gave me the money immediately. 'I have never borrowed any money from you,'Tony said, 'so now you can pay for my dinner!'

## Key structure
复习
- L2 一般现在时 现在进行时
- L3 一般过去时
- L4,5 现在完成时
- L7 过去进行时
---
- 一般现在时 do / does
    
- 一般过去时 did
- 现在进行时 am / is / are + doing
- 过去进行时 was / were + doing
- 现在完成时 have / has + done

- 例句
    - Jack always __goes__ to work by car.
    - Yesterday afternoon his car __broke__ down while he __was driving__ to work.
    - Now he __is taking__ a bus to work
    - He never __has done__ that before.

# Lesson 12 Goodbye and good luck

## text

{% meting "28258274" "netease" "song" %}

Where is Captain Alison going and how?

Our neighbour, Captain Charles Alison, will sail from Portsmouth tomorrow. We'll meet him at the harbour early in the morning. He will be in his small boat, _Topsail_. _Topsail_ is a famous little boat. It has sailed across the Atlantic many times. Captain Alison will set out at eight o'clock, so we'll have plenty of time. We'll see his boat and then we'll say goodby to him. He will be away for two months. We are very proud of him. He will take part in an important race across the Atlantic.  

## Key Structure

- 一般将来时
    - 形式
        - shall + do
        - will + do (临时决定的)
            - Be careful! The box is too heavy. I __will__ help you.
        - be(am/is/are) going to + do (事先有预兆、事先有计算的情况下中)
            - It is so dark outside. It __is going to__ rain.
            - I have got an offer. I __am going to__ study abroad next year.
    - 用法: (现在的)将来
        - I __will study__ abroad.
        - I __am going to study__ abroad.
        - He __will be__ a teacher. 
        - He __is going to be__ a teacher.
    - 变否定/疑问
        - He __will not be__ a teacher.
        - __Will__ he __be__ a teacher.

        - He __is not going to be__ a teacher.
        - __Is__ he __going to be__ a teacher? 

- 非延续性动词 + 一段时间?
    - He __will be away__ for two months.(away 是一种状态，可以接一段时间)
    - He __will leave__ for two months.(错误，leave是一个瞬间动作，不能接一段时间)
    - He will leave.

- be动词搭配的词组
    - He will __be away__ for two months.
    - I'm going out now. I'll __be back__ at six o'clock.
    - I'll __be out__ all morning.
    - I went to Ted's house and asked to see him but he __wasn't in__.
    - Why don't you forget about it? __It's all over__.
    - __What's on__ at the local cinema this week?
    - She is very ill. She can't start work yet. She __is__ not __up to__ it.
    - When the concert __ended__, we went home. __was over__
    - You can't take the exam yet. You __are__ not __capable of__ if. __are__ ，__up to__

# Lesson 13 The Greenwood Boys

## text

{% meting "28258275" "netease" "song" %}

Why will the police have a difficult time?

The Greenwood Boys are a group of pop singers. At present, they are visiting all parts of the country. The will be arriving here tomorrow. They will be coming by train and most of the young people in the town will be meeting them at the station. Tomorrow evening they will be singing at the Workers' Club. The Greenwood Boys will be staying for five days. During this time, they will give five performances. As usual, the police will have a difficult time. They will be trying to keep order. It is always the same on these occasions.

## Key Structure

- 将来进行时
    - 形式 
        - will be doing 
        - shall be doing (只能用于第一人称)
    - 用法: 将来某时正在进行/确定要发生的将来
        - I __will be waiting__ here at 10:00 tomorrow.
        - They __will be coming__ by train.
    - 变否定/疑问
        - They __will not be coming__ by train.
        - __Will__ they __be coming__ by train?
    - 与一般将来时的区别
        - 一般将来时
            - 泛泛的表示将来的事
            - 不一定会发生
        - 将来进行时
            - 强调正在进行
            - 强调确定要发生
- 名词所有格

# Lesson 14 Do you speak English?

## text 

{% meting "28258276" "netease" "song" %}

Did the young man speak English?

I had an amusing experience last year. After I had left a small village in the south of France, I drove on to the next town. On the way, a young man waved to me. I stopped and he asked me for a lift. As soon as he had got into the car, I said good morning to him in French and he replied in the same language. Apart from a few words, I do not know any French at all. Neither of us spoke during the journey. I had nearly reached the town, when the young man suddenly said, very slowly, 'Do you speak English?' As I soon learnt, he was English himself!

## Key Structure

- 过去完成时
    - 形式: had + done
    - 用法: 过去的之前（关键在于看待事物的角度）
        - 全部完成
        - 部分完成
        - When he got there, she was not there. She __had left__.
    - 变否定\疑问
        - She __had not left__.
        - __Had__ she __left__?
        - What __had__ she __done__?
    - vs 现在完成时
        - It is 10:00. I __have waited__ for 2 hours.
        - It was 10:00 i __had waited__ for 2 hours.
- 过去完成时与一般过去时的搭配使用
    - When he __got__ there, she __had left__.
        - __got__
            - 一般过去时
            - 过去
            - 后
        - __had left__
            - 过去完成时
            - 过去的之前
            - 前
    - He finished work. He went home.
        - After he __finished__ work, he __went__ home.
        - After he __had finished__ work, he __went__ home.
        - He __went__ home, after he __had finished__ work.
    - He finished lunch. He asked for a glass of water.
        - When he __finished__ lunch, he __asked__ for a glass of water.
        - When he __had finished__ lunch, he __asked__ for a glass of water.
    - The sun set. We returned to our hotel.
        - As soon as the sun __had set__, we __returned__ to our hotel.

- neither of ...(两者都不) / none of ...(都不)
    - __Neither of__ the twins liked sleeping during teh daytime. 
    - __None of__ the leaves can be green forever.

# Lesson 15 Good news

## text
{% meting "28258310" "netease" "song" %}

What was the good news?

The secretary told me that Mr.Harmsworth would see me. I felt very nervous when I went into his office. He did not look up from his desk when I entered. After I had sat down, he said that business was very bad. He told me that the firm could not afford to pay such large salaries. Twenty people had already left. I knew that my turn had come.  
'Mr.Harmsworth,' I said in a weak voice.  
'Don't interrupt,' he said.  
Then he smiled and told me I would receive an extra thousand pounds a year!

## Key Structure

- 直接引语 变 间接引语(宾语从句)
    - 他说：“我是笨蛋。”
        - 他说我是笨蛋。（错）
        - 他说他是笨蛋。
    - He says, 'I am a fool.'
        - He says __(that) he is a fool.__
    - He said, 'I am a fool.'
        - He said __(that) he was a fool.__
    - He said, 'I will go to Italy.'
        - He said __(that) he would go to Italy.__
    - He said, 'I went to Italy.'
        - He said __(that) he had gone__ to Italy.

- 练习
    - told 后面接人，said 后面接事
    - He __told__ that she __would come__ the next day.
    - He __said__ he __cloud not__ understand me.
    - I __told__ you I __had__ never played tennis before.
    - He __said__ that he __was working/worked/had worked__ all day yesterday.
    - Why __did__ you __say__ that you __were/had been__ busy?


# Lesson 16 A polite request

## text
{% meting "28258314" "netease" "song" %}

What was the polite request?

If you park you car in the wrong place, a traffic policeman will soon find it. You will be very lucky if he lets you go without a ticket. However, this does not always happen. Traffic police are sometimes very polite. During a holiday in Sweden, I found this note on my car:'Sir, we welcome you to our city. This is a "No Parking" area. You will enjoy your stay here if you pay attention to our street signs. This note is only a reminder.' If you receive a request like this, you cannot fail to obey it!

## Key Structure
- 状语从句
    - 一个句子做状语，一个句子做描述性信息
    - You will miss the train, __if you don't hurry__.
    - __When he was driving ...__, he saw two thieves...
    - I can't go with you, __because I don't have time__.
- if 条件状语从句(主句都是将来时)
    
    - 真实条件句
        - 假设过去
            - __If tall chimneys were built above sea level__, the tunnel would be well-ventilated.
        - 假设现在
            - __If he is out__, I will call him tomorrow.
            - __If he is working__, I won't disturb him.
        - 假设将来
            - __If it rains tomorrow__, we will stay at home.(假设未来也只能用一般现在时)

        | | if从句 | 主句 |
        |-|--------|-----|
        |假设过去|过去的各种时态|过去将来时|
        |假设现在|现在的各种时态|一般将来时|
        |假设将来|一般现在时（代替将来）|一般将来时|

        - 主句的变化
            - If it rains tomorrow, __we will stay at home__.
            - If he finds something wrong, __he may tell you__.
            - If you make a mistake, __correct it__.
        
    - 虚拟条件句

# Lesson 17 Always young

## text
{% meting "28258315" "netease" "song" %}

Why doesn't Aunt Jennifer tell anyone how old she is?

My aunt Jennifer is an actress. She must be at least thirty-five years old. In spite of this, she often appears on the stage as a young girl. Jennifer will have to take part in a new play soon. This time, she will be a girl of seventeen. In the play, she must appear in a bright red dress and long black stockings. Last year in another play, she had to wear short socks and a bright, orange-coloured dress. If anyone ever asks her how old she is, she always answers, 'Darling, it must be terrible to be grown up!'

## Key Structure

- 情态动词
    - must 后面接原型
        - 表示推测“肯定，一定”
            - She __must be__ 35 years old.
            - You __must be__ the new teacher.
            - 推测过去
                - It __must have rained__ last night.
                - She __must have cried__ just now.
        - 表示不可避免的义务“必须”
            - I __must do__ it now.
            - She __must do__ it now.
            - You __must do__ it tomorrow.
    - have to (都是必须的意思，但有客观条件下的必须-不得不)
        - I __have to__ do it now.
        - She __has to__ do it now.
        - You __will have to do__ it tomorrow.
        - They __had to__ do it yesterday.
    - may / might
    - can / could
    - will / would
    - shall / should
    
# Lesson 18 He often does this

## text
{% meting "28258317" "netease" "song" %}

What had happened to the writer's bag?

After I had had lunch at a village pub, I looked for my bag. I had left it on a chair beside the door and now it wasn't there! As I was looking for it, the landlord came in.  
'Did you have a good meal?' he asked.  
'Yes, thank you,' I answered, 'but I can't pay the bill. I haven't got my bag.'  
The landlord smiled and immediately went out. In a few minutes he returned with my bag and gave it back to me.  
'I'm very sorry,' he said. 'My dog had taken it into the garden. He often does this!'

## Key Structure

- have 的用法
    - 实义动词：
        - “有” (own / possess)
            - I have a book.
            - She has a car.
            - He had a surprise.
        - “吃喝玩乐做”
            - have a meal
            - have breakfast
            - have some water
            - have fun
            - have a good time
            - have a swim
        - 变否定
            - I __do not have__ a book.
            - She __does not have__ lunch.
            - He __did not have__ a good time.
    - 助动词（完成时态中）
        - I have received a letter.
        - She has bought a gift.
        - He had left.
        - 表否定
            - I have not received a letter.
            - She has not bought a gift.
            - He had not left.
    - have / has had (现在完成)
    - had had (过去完成)

- give
    - He returned with my bag and __gave__ it back to me.
    - __Give in__ your exercise books to me.(上交)
    - He can't continue fighting. He will soon __give in__.(投降)
    - I __gave away__ my collection of stamps to the little boy.(送走)
    - I have __given up__ smoking.(放弃)
    - Three of our officers __gave__ them __up__ to the enemy.(投降)
    - Will the person who took my ruler please give it __back__ to me.
    - When my children grew up, I gave all their toys __away__.
    - When do we have to give __in__ our composition?
    - We were losing the battle but we did not give __up__.

# Lesson 19 Sold out

## text
{% meting "28258325" "netease" "song" %}

When will the writer see the play?

'The play may begin at any moment,' I said.  
'It may have begun already,' Susan answered.  
I hurried to the ticket office. 'May I have two tickets please?' I asked.  
'I'm sorry, we've sold out,' the girl said.  
'What a pity!' Susan exclaimed.  
Just then, a man hurried to the ticket office.  
'Can I return these two tickets?' He asked.  
'Certainly,' the girl said.  
I went back to the ticket office at once.  
'Could I have those two tickets please?' I asked.  
'Certainly,' the girl said, 'but they're for next Wednesday's performance. Do you still want them?'  
'I might as well have them,' I said sadly.

## Key Structure

- 情态动词
    - may(might)
        - 表推测 “可能”
            - may do (推测现在)/ may have done(推测过去)
        - 请求允许？ “可以吗？”
            - May I do sth.?(may 后要必须接I)
        - 允许 “可以”
            - I/You/They may ...
    - can
        - 能力 “能，能够”
            - Trust yourself! You __can do__ it.
        - 请求允许？ “可以吗？”
            - __Can I__ help you? / What __can I__ do for you?
            - You __can help__ me to find my size.
        - 推测（常用于否定）can't / couldn't “不可能”
            - He is abroad. It __can't be__ him.

# Lesson 20 One man in a boat

## text
{% meting "28258330" "netease" "song" %}

Why is fishing the writer's favorite sport?

Fishing is my favorite sport. I often fish for hours without catching anything. But this does not worry me. Some fishermen are unlucky. Instead of catching fish, they catch old boots and rubbish. I am even less lucky. I never catch anything - not even old boots. After having spent whole morning on the river, I always go home with an empty bag. 'You must give up fishing!' my friends say. 'It's a waste of time.' But they don't realize one important thing. I'm not really interested in fishing. I am only interested in sitting in a boat and doing nothing at all. 

## Key Structure

- doing 动名词
    - 作主语
        - __Fishing__ is my favorite sport.(fish 是动词,加ing变名词)
        - __Playing basketball__ is my favorite sport.
    - 介词后，作宾语
        - I often fish for hour without __catching anything__.

- 介词 + doing动名词 改写句子
    - He sat there. He did not say anything.(without)
        - He sat there __without saying__ anything.
    - He turned of the radio. He left the room.(before)
        - He turned of the radio __Before leaving__ the room .
    - I must apologize. I interrupted you.(for)
        - I must apologize __for interrupting__ you.
        - I must apologize __for having interrupted__ you.


# Lesson 21 Mad or not?

## text
{% meting "28258333" "netease" "song" %}

Why do people think the writer is mad?

Airplanes are slowly driving me mad. I live near an airport and passing planes can be heard night and day. The airport was built years ago, but for some reason it could not be used then. Last year, however, it came into use. Over a hundred people must have been driven away from their homes by the noise. I am one of few people left. Sometimes I think this house will be knocked down by a passing plane. I have been offered a large sun of money to go away, but I am determined to stay here. Everybody says I must be mad  and they are probably right.

## Key Structure

- 被动语态与时态相结合(复习L10)
    - be + done
        - be 1 被动的时态，2 主语的单复数 
        - done 被动的动作

- 被动语态与情态动词或词组相结合
    - Planes __are heard__.
    - Planes __can be__ heard.
    - Planes __may be__ heard.
    - Planes __must be__ heard.
    - The letter __must be sent__ immediately.
    - The weather __cannot be controlled__ by people.
    - must have been done (推测过去的被动)
        - My cell phone __must have been stolen__.
        - His keys __must have been lost__.


- 主动语态 vs. 被动语态
    - He will repair __your watch__. (Who)
    - __Your watch__ will be repaired (by him).(What，强调事)
    - They must test __this new car__.
    - __This new car__ must be tested.

- doing / done 修饰名词（作定语）
    - I am one of __the few people left__.
    - doing 修饰名词（作定语）
        - __passing__ planes
        - a __waiting__ car
        - __boiling__ water
        - a __sleeping__ baby
        - a __developing__ country
        - a woman __wearing a white coat__
    - done 修饰名词（作定语）
        - __used__ cars
        - a __deserted__ car park
        - a __ploughed__ field
        - a __developed__ country
        - __wasted__ time
        - a car __called Blue Bird__
        - the few people __left__

# Lesson 22 A glass envelope

## text

{% meting "28258334" "netease" "song" %}

How did Jane receive a letter from a stranger?

My daughter, Jane, never dreamed of receiving a letter from a girl of her own age in Holland. Last year, we were travelling across the Channel and Jane put a piece of paper with her name and address on it into a bottle. She threw the bottle into the sea. She never thought of it again, but ten months later, she received a letter from a girl in Holland. Both girl writer to each other regularly now. However, they have decided to use the post office. Letters will cost a little more, but they will certainly travel faster.

## Key Structure
- 修饰比较级
    - a little(bit)
    - much / a lot / far
    - even

- 后面可接on的动词（on - 在...上面）
    - act on 遵守
    - base on 在...基础上
    - comment on 评论
    - concentration on 集中
    - lean on 倚靠于...（具体的）
    - live on 靠...为生
    - operate on 起作用(做手术)
    - count on / depend on / rely on 依赖于（抽象上）

- 后面可接in的动词（in - 在...里面)
    - believe in 信仰
    - delight in 喜欢
    - interest in 感兴趣
    - include in 包括
    - involve in 卷入
    - engage in 参与
    - experience in 在...有经验
    - fail in 没有尽到（失败）
    - help in (with) 帮助

- 后面可接from的动词（from - 从...来）
    - borrow from 从...借
    - receive from 收到来自于...
    - escape from 从...逃出
    - draw from 从...拉过来
    - suffer from 从...受苦
    - differ from 有别于
    - separate from 从...分开
    - protect from 保护...使免于
    - defend from
    - prevent from 阻止...使免于

- 后面可接of的动词
    - consist of 由...组成
    - think of 思考
    - complain of 抱怨
    - dream of 幻想
    - accuse of 控告
    - approve of 赞成
    - assure of 让...放心
    - beware of 注意
    - be/get rid of 摆脱
    - tired of 对...感到厌烦
    - convince of 使...信服

- 后面可接 of / from / in / on 的动词
    - I withdrew a lot of money __from__ the bank.
    - I refuse to comment __on__ his work.
    - The waiter's tip is included __in__ the bill.
    - Beware __of__ the dog.
    - Do you approve __of__ hunting?
    - Are you interested __in__ music?
    - Don't lean __on__ the shelf.
    - They differ __from__ each other so much.

# Lesson 23 A new house

## text
{% meting "28258335" "netease" "song" %}

Why is the new house special?

I had a letter from my sister yesterday. She lives in Nigeria. In her letter, she said that she would come to England next year. If she comes, she will get a surprise. We are now living in a beautiful new house in the country. Work on it had begun before my sister left. The house was completed five months ago. In my letter, I told her that she could stay with us. The house has many large rooms and there is a lovely garden. It is a very modern house, so it looks strange to some people. It must be the only modern house in the district.

## Key Structure
- There be 句型
    - There be + n（最常见）
        - There is a girl in the classroom.
        - There was a book on the table.
        - There is still some honesty in this world.
    - There be + n + doing
        - there is a girl crying.
    - There be + n + 介词短语/doing
        - There is a girl crying in the classroom.
        - There were some people rowing on the river.
    
# Lesson 24 It could be worse

## text
{% meting "28258337" "netease" "song" %}

Had the writer's money been stolen?

I entered the hotel manager's office and sat down. I had just lost $50 and I felt very upset. 'I left the money in my room,' I said, 'and it's not there now.' The manager was sympathetic, but he could do nothing. 'Everyone's losing money these days,' he said. He started to complain about this wicked world but was interrupted by a knock at the door. A girl came in and put an envelope on his desk. It contained $50. 'I found this outside this gentleman's room,' she said. 'Well,' I said to the manager, 'there is still some honesty in this world!'

