---
title: 《新概念英语二》91~96笔记
date: 2022-02-17 10:26:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 91 Three men in a basket

## text
{% meting "28258413" "netease" "song" %}

Where was the station's Commanding Officer?

A pilot noticed a balloon which seemed to be making for a Royal Air Force Station nearby. He informed the station at once, but no one there was able to explain the mystery. The officer in the control tower was very angry when he heard the news, because balloons can be a great danger to aircraft. He said that someone might be spying on the station and the pilot was ordered to keep track of the strange object. The pilot managed to circle the ballon for some time. He could make out three men in a basket under it and one of them was holding a pair of binoculars. When the ballon was over the station, the pilot saw one of the men taking photographs. Soon afterwards, the ballon began to descend and it landed near an airfield. The police were called in, but they could not arrest anyone, for the basket contained two Members of Parliament and the Commanding Officer of the station! As the Commanding Officer explained later, one half of the station did not know what the other half was doing!

## Key Structure

- 复习 can / be able to / manage to do
    - can / be able to
        - 相同点：都表示能力，“能够”（be able to 时态比 can / could 更灵活）
        - 不同点：
            - 表示过去已经成功做到的，用 was / were able to, 不用 could
            - can 还可以表示猜测，允许
        - 区别:
            - could do (过去能做，不知道是否做到了)
            - was/were able to do (过去能做，并且做到了)
            - managed to do (过去能做，并且做到了)

- make 搭配的词组:
    - A balloon seemed to be __making for__ a Royal Air Force Station.
    - He could __make out__(看出) three men in a basket.
    - Please __make out__(做出) a fresh copy.
    - I could not __make out__(理解) what he said.
    - He __made up__(编造) a story about two men and a horse.
    - She spends hours __making up__(化妆) in front of the mirror.
    - I must __make up__(补偿) for the time I lost this morning.
    - 练习
        - I lost my lecture notes and had to make __out__ a new set.
        - When it got dark we make __for__ home.
        - How can you make __up__ all those lessons you missed?


# Lesson 92 Asking for trouble

## text
{% meting "28258414" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the policeman ask the writer to come to the police station?

It must have been about two in the morning when I returned home. I tried to wake up my wife by ringing the doorbell, but she was fast asleep, so I got a ladder from the shed in the garden, put it against the wall, and began climbing towards the bedroom window. I was almost there when a sarcastic voice below said, 'I don't think the windows need cleaning at this time of the night.' I looked down and nearly fell off the ladder when I saw a policeman. I immediately regretted answering in the way I did, but I said, 'I enjoy cleaning windows at night.'  
'So do I,' answered the policeman in the same tone. 'Excuse my interrupting you. I hate to interrupt a man when he's busy working, but would you mind coming with me to the station?'  
'Well, I'd prefer to stay here,' I said. 'You see, I've forgotten my key.'  
'Your what?' he called.  
'My key,' I shouted.  
Fortunately, the shouting woke up my wife who opened the window just as the policeman had started to climb towards me.

## Key Structure

- 复习 doing 的用法

- 否定前移
    - I __don't think__ the windows need cleaning at this time of the night.
        - I think the windows __don't need__ cleaning at this time of the night.
    - 我认为你不是错的。
        - I don't think you are wrong.
    - 去年他相信这个计划将不会失败。
        - Last year he didn't believe that the plan would fail.

- So do I
    - 我也这样做(我也是)
    - So + 助动词 + sb. “某人也是。”
    - I can swim.
        - So can I.
    - I felt excited after the party.
        - So did I.
- Neither + 助动词 + sb “某人也不是”
    - I don't like my job.
        - Neither do I.
    - I will not miss the meeting.
        - Neither will I / the candidates.

# Lesson 93 A noble gift

## text
{% meting "28258415" "netease" "song" %}

Where was the Statue of Liberty made?

One of the most famous monuments in the world, the Statue of Liberty, was presented to the United States of America in the nineteenth century by the people of France. The great statue, which was designed by the sculptor Auguste Bartholdi, took ten years to complete. The actual figure was made of copper supported by a metal framework which had been especially constructed by Eiffel. Before it could be transported to the United States, a site had to be found for it and a pedestal had to be built. The site chosen was an island at the entrance of New York Harbour. By 1884, a statue which was 151 feet tall had been erected in Paris. The following year, it was taken to pieces and sent to America. By the end of October 1886, the statue had been put together again and it was officially presented to the American people by Bartholdi. Ever since then, the great monument has been a symbol of liberty for the millions of people who have passed through New York Harbour to make their homes in America.

## Key Structure

- 复习表示被动
    - be done 被动语态 谓语动词
    - done 过去分词 非谓语动词

- 复习被动语态
    - be + done
        - be
            - 被动的时间
            - 主语的单复数
        - done
            - 被动的动作

| | 不同时态对应不同的被动语态 |
|-|-------------------------|
|一般过去时| was/were + done |
|一般现在时| am/is/are + done|
|一般将来时| will be + done  |
|过去将来时| would be + done | 
|过去进行时| was/were being + done |
|现在进行时| am/is/are being + done|
|过去完成时| had been + done  |
|现在完成时| have/has been + done | 

# Lesson 94 Future champions

## text
{% meting "28258416" "netease" "song" %}

What kind of race do the children compete in?

Experiments have proved that children can be instructed in swimming at a very early age. At a special swimming pool in Los Angeles, children become expert at holding their breath under water even before they can walk. Babies of two months old do not appear to be reluctant to enter the water. It is not long before they are so accustomed to swimming that they can pick up weights from the floor of the pool. A game __that is very popular with these young swimmers__ is the underwater tricycle race. Tricycles are lined up on the floor of the pool seven feet under water. The children compete against each other to reach the other end of the pool. Many pedal their tricycles, but most of them prefer to push or drag them. Some children can cover the whole length of the pool without coming up for breath even once. Whether they will ever become future Olympic champions, only time will tell. Meanwhile, they should encourage those among us who cannot swim five yards before they are gasping for air. 

## Key Structure

- 五步阅读法
    1. 初读 -- 测试自己的水平/时间感/猜词能力
        - 不查生词
        - 按时做题
    2. 查读 -- 单词的积累
        - 把生词记录在生词本上
    3. 精读 -- 语法的巩固
        - 分析长难句
    4. 复读 -- 阅读的提高
        - 搞懂整篇文章
    5. 选读 -- 写作的基础
        - 摘抄好句子


# Lesson 95 A fantasy

## text
{% meting "28258417" "netease" "song" %}

Why was the Ambassador particularly lucky?

When the Ambassador of Escalopia returned home for lunch, his wife got a shock. He looked pale and his clothes were in a frightful state.  
'What has happened?' she asked. 'How did your clothes get into such a mess?'  
'A fire extinguisher, my dear,' answered the Ambassador drily. 'University students set the Embassador on fire this morning.'  
'Good heavens!' exclaimed his wife. 'And where were you at the time?'  
'I was in my office as usual,' answered the Ambassador. 'The fire broke out in the basement. I went down immediately, of course, and that fool, Horst, aimed a fire extinguisher at me. He thought I was on fire. I must definitely get that fellow posted.'  
The Ambassador's wife went on asking questions, when she suddenly noticed a big hole in her husband's hat.  
'And how can you explain _that_?' she asked.  
'Oh, that,' said the Ambassador. 'Someone fired a shot through my office window. Accurate, don't you think? Fortunately, I wasn't wearing it at the time. If I had been, I would not have been able to get home for lunch.'

## Key Structure

- 时间状语从句
    - When the Ambassador of Escalopia returned home for lunch, his wife got a shock.

- 状语从句
    - 含义: 一个句子作状语，表达描述性的信息。对主句进行补充。
    - 位置: 
        - __When he comes back__, I will let you know.
        - I will let you know, __When he comes back__.
        - I, __When he comes back__, will let you know.
    - 写法:
        - 主句 + 从属连词 + 完整的陈述句
    - 分类: 由从属连词决定
        1. __时间状语从句__
            - when, while, as, before, after, since, until, as soon as...
        2. 地点状语从句
            - where
        3. __原因状语从句__
            - because, since, as
        4. __结果状语从句__
            - so/such... that, so that...
        5. 目的状语从句
            - so that..., in order that...
        6. __条件状语从句__
            - if, unless
        7. __让步状语从句__
            - although, though, even though, even if
        8. 比较状语从句
            - than, as
        9. 方式状语从句
            - as

# Lesson 96 The dead return

## text
{% meting "28258418" "netease" "song" %}

What happens to the lanterns at the end of the festival?

A festival for the Dead is held once a year in Japan. This festival is a cheerful occasion, for on this day, the dead are said to their homes and they are welcomed by the living. As they are expected to be hungry after their long journey, food is laid out for them. Specially-made lanterns are hung outside each house to help the dead to find their way. All night long, people dance and sing. In the early morning, the food __that had been laid out for the dead__ is thrown into a river or into the sea __as it is considered unlucky for anyone living to eat it__. In towns that are near the sea, the tiny lanterns which had been hung in the streets the night before, are placed into the water when the festival is over. Thousands of lanterns slowly drift out to sea guiding the dead on their return journey to the other world. This is a moving spectacle, for crowds of people stand on the shore watching the lanterns drifting away until they can be seen no more.

## Key Structure

- 分析长难句的关键:
    - 谓语动词
    - 连词

