---
title: 《新概念英语二》55-60笔记
date: 2022-02-06 18:45:19
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 55 Not a gold mind

## text
{% meting "28258377" "netease" "song" %}

What did the team find?

Dreams of finding lost treasure almost came true recently. A new machine called 'The Revealer' has been invented and it has been used to detect gold which has been buried in the ground. The machine was used in a cave near the seashore where - it is said - pirates used to hide gold. The pirates would often bury gold in the cave and then fail to collect it. Armed with the new machine, a search party went into the cave hoping to find buried treasure. The leader of the party was examining the soil near the entrance to the cave when the machine showed that there was gold under the ground. Very excited, the party dug a hole two feet deep. They finally found a small gold coin which was almost worthless. The party then searched the whole cave thoroughly but did not find anything except an empty tin trunk. In spite of this, many people are confident that 'The Revealer' may reveal something of value fairly soon. 

## Key Structure

- 过去常常做某事：used to do sth. / would do sth.
    - used to do sth.
        - 过去常常做某事，现在确定不做了
        - 过去的状态(静态)
    - would 都 sth.
        - 过去常常做某事，现在做不做不知道
        - 不能用于故事的开头
    - I __used to__ go to work by bus. Now I go by car.
    - I __used to__ be a student. I __used to__ have many pen-friends.
    - When I was a boy, I __used to__ spent my holiday in a factory. I __would__ get up at 5:00 and __would__ start working at 6:00.

- 总结非谓语动词
    - 什么是非谓语动词？--还是动词，但不作谓语
    - 什么时候用非谓语动词？--有谓语动词了，就要用非谓语动词了
    - 非谓语动词分几种？
        - doing / done / to do
    - 非谓语动词的作用
        - 相当于名词用，作主语/宾语/表语(doing / to do)
            - 作主语
                - __Fishing__ is my favourite sport.
                - __To fish__ is my favourite sport.
                - __It__ was his job __to repair bicycles__.
            - 作宾语
                - I often fish for hours without __catching anything__.
                - Both men started __running through the trees__.
                - Both men started __to run through the trees__.
            - 作表语
                - My dream is __travelling around the world__.
                - My dream is __to travel around the world__.
        - 修饰名词/句子,作定语/状语(doing / done / to do)
            - 修饰名词，作定语
                - __Passing planes__ can be heard night and day.
                - I was the only __passenger left on the bus__.
                - I have a lot of __homework to do__.
            - 修饰句子，作状语
                - __Looking round__, I realized that I was the only passenger.
                - __Armed with the new machine__, they went into the cave.
                - I sat in the front of the bus __to get a good view__ ...

- 写作拓展
    - something __of value__ = something __valuable__
    - something __of great value__ = something __very valuable__
    - very important = of great importance
    - very different = of great difference
    - Your final exam is of great importance.
    - Chinese and English are of great difference.

- 区分易混淆词组：
    - used to do sth.
        - 过去常常做某事，现在不做了
    - be used to do sth.
        - 被用来去做某事
    - be used to sth./doing sth.
        - 习惯于某物/做某事
    - The machine has __been used to detect gold__ which has been buried in the ground.
    - The machine was used in a cave near the seashore where pirates __used to hide gold__.
    - I __am used to staying up late__.
    - She didn't like this district at first, but she __is used to it__ now.
    - 练习
        - I __used to__ see him often.
        - I __am used to__ swimming in cold water.
        - He __used to__ buy two bars of chocolate.
        - I couldn't stand the noise at first but I __am used to__ it now.

# Lesson 56 Faster than sound!

## text
{% meting "28258378" "netease" "song" %}

How fast did the winning car go?

Once a year, a race is held for old cars. A lot of cars entered for this race last year and there was a great deal of excitement just before it began. One of the most handsome cars was a Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost. The most unusual car was a Benz which had only three wheels. Built in 1885, it was the oldest car taking part. After a great many loud explosions, the race began. Many of the cars broke down on the course and some drivers spent more time under their cars than in them! A few cars, however, completed the race. The winning car reached a speed of forty miles an hour - much faster than any of its rivals. It sped downhill at the end of the race and it driver had a lot of trouble trying to stop it. The race gave everyone a great deal of pleasure. It was very different from modern car races but no less exciting.

## Key Structure

- 复习形容词/副词的比较级/最高级

- 其他表示比较的词/词组
    - 修饰不可数名词，表示“许多，大量”
        - much
        - a great deal (of ...)
        - a lot (of ...)
        - There isn't __much__ I can do to help him.
    - 修饰可数名词，表示“许多，大量”
        - many | a great many (of ...)
        - a great number (of ...)
        - a lot (of ...)
        - __Many__ of our products are sold overseas.
    - 修饰或指代不可数名词
        - much
        - a great deal (of ...)
        - a lot (of ...)
        - a little 
        - little
        - The is __little__ I can do to help him.
        - There isn't __much__ whisky, but you can have __a little__.
    - 修饰或指代可数名词
        - many
        - a great many (of ...)
        - a lot (of ...)
        - a great number (of ...)
        - a few
        - few
        - There aren't __many__ apples, but you can pick __a few__.
        - There were __few__ people in the shop.

- 区分易混淆词：
    - handsome - 帅的，通常用于修饰男性
    - beautiful - 美丽的、漂亮的，通常用于修饰女性
    - pretty - 美丽的、漂亮的，通常用于修饰女性
    - good-looking - 中性的修饰词

    - reach : 到达某个程度，达到某个高度
        - The winning car __reached__ a speed of forty miles an hour.
        - Will you pass me that book please? I can't __reach__ it.
        - I had nearly __reached__ the town, when the young man suddenly said ...
    - arrive in/at : 专门用于到达某个地点
        - We __arrived in__ New York yesterday.
        - We __arrive at__ the station in good time.
    
    - take part : 参加
        - It was the oldest car __taking part__.
    - take place : 发生...事
        - The next race will __take place__ in a year's time.


# Lesson 57 Can I help you, madam?

## text
{% meting "28258379" "netease" "song" %}

Did the woman get what she wanted?

A woman in jeans stood at the window of an expensive shop. Though she hesitated for a moment, she finally went in and asked to see a dress that was in the window. The assistant who served her did not like the way she was dressed. Glancing at her scornfully, he told her that the dress was sold. The woman walked out of the shop angrily and decided to punish the assistant next day. She returned to the shop the following morning dressed in a fur coat, with a handbag in one hand and long umbrella in the other. After seeking out the rude assistant, she asked for the same dress. Not realizing who she was, the assistant was eager to serve her this time. With great difficulty, he climbed into the shop window to get the dress. As soon as she saw it, the woman said she did not like it. She enjoyed herself making the assistant bring almost everything in the window before finally buying the dress she had first asked for.

## Key Structure

- 复习介词
    - in / on / at
    - to
    - into / out of
    - with

- make sb. do / let sb. do
    - 使某人做某事/让某人做某事
    - make sb. do
        - 有强迫的意味
        - She __made the assistant bring__ almost everything in the window.
        - The teacher __made the boy write__ the exercise again.
    - let sb. do
        - 1.提出建议
        - Let's take a taxi.
        - 2.允许、许可
        - Don't let the children touch anything in this room please.

# Lesson 58 A blessing in disguise?

## text
{% meting "28258380" "netease" "song" %}

Why does the vicar refuse to cut down the tree?

The tiny village of Frinley is said to possess a 'cursed tree'. Because the tree was mentioned in a newspaper, the number of visitors to Frinley has now increased. The tree was planted near the church fifty years ago, but it is only in recent years that it has gained an evil reputation. It is said that if anyone touches the tree, he will have bad luck; if he picks a leaf, he will die. Many villagers believe that the tree has already claimed a number of victims. The vicar has been asked to have the tree cut down, but so far he has refused. He has pointed out that the tree is a useful source of income, as tourists have been coming from all parts of the country to see it. In spite of all that has been said, the tourists have been picking leaves and cutting their names on the tree-trunk. So far, not one of them has been struck down by sudden death!

## Key Structure

- 复习被动语态
    - 双宾语动词的被动语态
        - She gave __me__ a pen = She gave __a pen__ to me.
            - I was given a pen by her.
            - A pen was given to me by her.
        - The manager offered __the vacant post__ to him.
            - __The vacant post__ was offered to him by the manager.
        - The manager offered __him__ the vacant post.
            - __He__ was offered the vacant post by the manager.
    - 被动语态在写作中的应用
        - __People say (that)__ he is a genius.
            - He __is said to__ be a genius.
            - __It is said that__ he is a genius.
        - __People say (that)__ there is oil under the North Sea.
            - There __is said to__ be oil under the North Sea.
            - __It is said that__ there is oil under the North Sea.

- 强调句
    - 构成：it is + 强调的部分 + that + 句子余下的部分
    - 变化：it is/was + 强调的部分 + that/who + 句子余下的部分
    - __Tom__ went camping with Jenny.
        - __It was__ Tom __that/who__ went camping with Jenny.
    - We used to have meetings __in the cafe__.
        - __It was__ in the cafe __that__ we used to have meetings.
    - Men can solve the problems of natural disaster __only by controlling the environmental pollution__.
        - __It is__ only by controlling the environmental pollution __that__ Men can solve the problems of natural disaster.
    - 不能强调什么？
        - 不能强调形容词和动词。
        - __It was__ obvious __that__ he was very embarrassed. (不是强调句)
        - __It is__ said __that__ he has returned from England. (不是强调句)

- the number of + 可数名词复数 "...的数量"
    - 前面作主语，后面接单数动词
    - __The number of__ the students __is__ 5000.

- a number of + 可数名词复数 "许多/大量的..."
    - 前面作主语，后面接复数动词
    - A number of students __are__ coming here.
