---
title: 《新概念英语二》25~48笔记
date: 2022-02-19 15:22:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 25 Do the English speak English?

## text
{% meting "28258340" "netease" "song" %}

Why does the writer not understand the porter?

I arrived in London at last. The railway station was big, black and dark. I did not know the way to my hotel, so I asked a porter. I not only spoke English very carefully, but very clearly as well. The porter, however, cloud not understand me. I repeated my question several times and at last the understood me. He answered me, but he spoke neither slowly nor clearly. 'I am a foreigner,' I said. Then he spoke slowly, but I could not understand him. My teacher never spoke English like that! The porter and I looked at each other and smiled. Then he said something and I understood it. 'You'll soon learn English!' he said. I wonder. In England, each person speaks a different language. The English understand each other, but I don't understand them! Do the speak English?  

## Key Structure
- 句子的分类（按照结构划分）
    1. 简单句
    2. 并列句
        - 含义：多件事，一样重要
        - 并列连词
            1. 顺接
                - ... and ... / both ... and ...
                - not only ... but ... as well
                - not only ... but also ...
                - not only ... but ...
            2. 转折
                - ... but ...
                - ... yet ...
            3. 选择
                - ... or ... / either ... or ...
                - neither ... nor ...
            4. 因果
                - ... for ...
                - ... so ...
        - 特点
            - 相同的可以省略，余下的保持不变
                - I ran to the station. I missed the bus.
                    - I ran to the station __but I__ missed the bus.
                    - I ran to the station __but__ missed the bus.
                - I spoke English very carefully. I spoke English very clearly.
                    - I __not only__ spoke English very carefully, __but__ I spoke English very clearly __as well__.
                    - I __not only__ spoke English very carefully, __but__ very clearly __as well__.
                - He __did not speak__ English. I __did not speak__ English.
                    - __Neither__ he __nor__ I __spoke__ English. 

    3. 复合句

# Lesson 26 The best art critics

## text
{% meting "28258342" "netease" "song" %}

Who is the student's best critic?

I am an art student and I paint a lot of pictures. Many people pretend that they understand modern art. They always tell you what a picture is 'about'. Of course, many pictures are not 'about' anything. They are just pretty patterns. We like them in the same way that we like pretty curtain material. I think that young children often appreciate modern pictures better than anyone else. They notice more. My sister is only seven, but she always tells me whether my pictures are good or not. She came into my room yesterday.  
'What are you doing?' she asked.  
'I'm hanging this picture on the wall,' I answered. 'It's new one. Do you like it?'  
She looked at it critically for a moment. 'It's all right,' she said, 'but isn't it upside down?'  
I looked at it again. She was right! It was!

## Key Structure
- 宾语从句
    - 含义：一个句子作宾语，把它放到另一句子里，另一个句子叫主句，主句+从句
    - 写法：连接词 + 陈述句
        - 陈述句中缺什么，连接词写什么
    1. 陈述句变宾语从句？
        - you are right.
            - I think __(that) you are right__.
        - They understand modern art.
            - Many people pretend __(that) they understand modern art__.
    2. 特殊疑问句变宾语从句？
        - What is a picture 'about'?
            - They always tell you __what a picture is 'about'__
    3. 一般疑问句变宾语从句？
        - Are my pictures good or not?
            - She always tells me __wither / if my pictures are good or not__.
    - 位置
        1. Many people __pretend__ that they understand modern art.
        2. They always __tell you__ what a picture is 'about'.
        3. He was astonished __at__ what he found.
    - 练习
        - I promise __that__ I will help you.
        - You never told me __what__ you had done to my computer.
        - I wonder __when__ we will come set out.
        - Then don't know __whether they will finish the work on time__.

- 名词性从句
    - 宾语从句
    - 表语从句
    - 主语从句
    - 同位语从句

# Lesson 27 A wet night

## text
{% meting "28258344" "netease" "song" %}

What happened to the boys in the night?

Late in the afternoon, the boys put up their tent in the middle of a field. As soon as this was done, they cooked a meal over an open fire. They were all hungry and the food smelled good. After a wonderful meal, they told stories and sang songs by the campfire. But some time later it began to rain. The boys felt tired so they put out the fire and crept into their tent. Their sleeping bags were warm and comfortable, so they all slept soundly. In the middle of the night, two boys woke up and began shouting. The tent was full of water! They all leapt out of their sleeping bags and hurried outside. It was raining heavily and they found that a steam had formed in the field. The stream wound its way across the field and then flowed right under their tent!

## Key Structure
- 复习一般过去时

- 短语动词 put
    - put up 搭起，建起/安排住宿
    - put up with sb 忍受...
    - put out the fire 扑灭火
    - put down 放下来、写下来
    - put ... away 放在一边
    - put ... off 推迟
    - put on 穿上

# Lesson 28 No parking

## text
{% meting "28258345" "netease" "song" %}

What is Jasper White's problem?

Jasper White is one of those rare people who believes in ancient myths. He has just bought a new house in the city, but ever since he moved in, he has had trouble with cars and their owners. When he returns home at night, he always finds that someone has parked a car outside his gate. Because of this, he has not been able to get his own car into his garage even once. Jasper has put up 'No Parking' signs outside his gate, but these have not had any effect. Now he has put an ugly stone head over the gate. It is one of the ugliest faces I have ever seen. I asked him what it was and he told me that it was Medusa, the Gorgon. Jasper hopes that she will turn cars and their owners to stone. But none of them has been turned to stone yet. 

## Key Structure

- 定语从句
    - 含义：一个句子作定语，修饰一个名词
    - 位置：所修饰名词后
    - 写法：
        - This is __the job__. I have dreamed of __the job__ for years.
            - This is __the job__ __which i have dreamed of for years__.

|先行词| 关系词|
|-----|-------|
|事 / 物| which / that|
|人 | who / whom / that |
|人 / 物 ("某人的" / "某物的") | whose |
|时间| when |
|地点| where |
|原因| why |

- 定语从句的关系词每一个都作成分，包括that
- whom 指认，只能在坐宾语时使用
- 关系词在定语从句中作宾语时，可以省略

- 定语从句练习
    - I have a class __which/that__ begins at 8:00 am.
    - The lawyer __who__ my brother called didn't answer the phone
    - My daughter asked me a question __which / that__ I couldn't answer.
    - Australia is one of the few countries __where__ people drive on the left.
    - Sunday is the day __when__ people usually don't go to work.
    - Is there any particular reason __why__ you can't come?

- 复习现在完成时

- 复习宾语从句

# Lesson 29 Taxi!

## text
{% meting "28258347" "netease" "song" %}

Does Captain Fawcett think any trip is too dangerous?

Captain Ben Fawcett has bought an unusual taxi and has begun a new service. The 'taxi' is a small Swiss aeroplane called a 'Pilatus Porter'. This wonderful plane can carry seven passengers. The most surprising thing about it, however, is that it can land anywhere: on snow, water, or even on a ploughed field. Captain Fawcett's first passenger was a doctor who flew from Birmingham to a lonely village in the Welsh mountains. Since then, Captain Fawcett has flown passengers to many unusual places. Once he landed on the roof of a block of flats and on another occasion, he landed in a deserted car park. Captain Fawcett has just refused a strange request from a businessman. The man wanted to fly to Rockall, a lonely island in the Atlantic Ocean, but Captain Fawcet did not take him because the trip was too dangerous.

## Key Structure

- 复习现在完成时
    - 常搭配
        - have / has + __just__ + done
        - already
        - ever
        - never
        - up to now / up till now
        - so far
        - since + 过去的时间
        - since + 过去的动作（一般过去时的句子）
            - He has lived in Beijing since 1993. (since he was born.)

- 表语从句
    - 什么是什么
    - 含义：一个句子作表语
    - 位置：在系动词后
    - 例子
        - His suggestion is __that__ we should keep calm.
        - The question is __when__ he will arrive here.
        - The point is __whether__ the new plan is feasible.

- take / bring / fetch
    - take 从这拿走 ->
    - bring 从别的地方拿来 <-
    - fetch 从这去拿过来 -> <-

# Lesson 30 Football or polo?

## text
{% meting "28258350" "netease" "song" %}

What happened to the man in the boat?

The Wayle is a small river that cuts across the park near my home. I like sitting by the Wayle on fine afternoons. It was warm last Sunday, so I went and sat on the river bank as usual. Some children were playing games on the bank and there were some people rowing on the river. Suddenly, one of the children kicked a ball very hard and it went towards a passing boat. Some people on the bank called out to the man in the boat, but he did not hear them. The ball struck him so hard that he nearly fell into the water. I turned to look at the children, but there weren't any in sight: they had all run away! The man laughed when he realized what had happened. He called out to the children and threw the ball back to the bank.

## Key Structure

- 冠词
    - 定冠词 the 表是特指
    - 不定冠词 a / an 表示泛指
    - 零冠词 不加冠词
    - 人名和地名的前面，一般不加冠词
    - 海洋、河流、山脉和部分国名前，加定冠词 the
        - the Atlantic
        - the Alps
        - the United States

- there be 句型
    - 这儿有
- some / any
    - 当都表示 __一些、许多__ 的含义的时候，some用于肯定句，any用于否定句和疑问句
    - Is there __any__ milk in the bottle?
    - There isn't __any__ milk in the bottle, but there is __some__ water in it.
    - Are there __any__ nails in that tin?
    - There aren't __any__ in the tin, but there are __some__ on the shelf.

# Lesson 31 Success story

## text
{% meting "28258352" "netease" "song" %}

What was Frank's first job?

Yesterday afternoon Frank Hawkins was telling me about his experiences as a young man. Before he retired, Frank was the head of a very large business company, but as a boy he used to work in a small shop. It was his job to repair bicycles and at that time he used to work fourteen hours a day. He saved money for years and in 1958 he bought a small workshop of his own. In his twenties Frank used to make spare parts for airplanes. At that time he had two helpers. In a few years the small workshop had become a large factory which employed seven hundred and twenty-eight people. Frank smiled when he remembered his hard early years and the long road to success. He was still smiling when the door opened and his wifi came in. She wanted him to repair their grandson's bicycle!

## Key Structure

- 复习一般过去时/过去进行时

- used to do sth.
    - 过去常常做....

- job / work
    - job 职业
    - work 具体做的事

- it 形式主语，to do sth. 真正主语
    - it 放前能推进语言传递的速度，啰嗦的放后面。
    - __It__ was his job __to repair bicycles__ ...
        - = __To repair bicycles__ was his job ...

    - __It__ is my dream __to travel around the world__
        - = __To travel around the world__ is my dream.

    - __It__ is very important __to study English__.

    - __It__ is necessary __to think about the future__.

# Lesson 32 shopping made easy

## text
{% meting "28258353" "netease" "song" %}

Who was the thief?

People are not so honest as they once were. The temptation to steal is greater than ever before - especially in large shops. A detective recently watched a well-dressed woman who always went into a large store on Monday mornings. One Monday, there were fewer people in the shop than usual when the woman came in, so it was easier for the detective to watch her. The woman first bought a few small articles. After a little time, she chose one of the most expensive dresses in the shop and handed it to an assistant who wrapped it up for her as quickly as possible. Then the woman simply took the parcel and walked out of the shop without paying. When she was arrested, the detective found out that the shop assistant was her daughter. The girl 'gave' her mother a free dress once a week!

## Key Structure

- 形容词 / 副词的原级比较
    - adj./adv.的最高级(+介词短语表示比较的范围)
        - + est / 
        - 通常表示三者或以上的比较
    - 比较对象的多样
        - Her mother is as beautiful as __before__.
        - Her mother is as beautiful as __she was__.
        - Her mother is as beautiful as __she used to be__.
        - Travelling was not as easy as __today__.
        - Travelling was not as easy as __it is today__.
        - I will do it as quickly as __possible__.
        - I will do it as quickly as __I can__.
        - You are as clever as __I think__.
        - The problem was not as complicated as __we thought__.

- 复习形容词 / 副词的比较级和最高级
    - as + 比较的内容 + as + 比较的对象
        - I am __as tall as you__.
        - He works __as hard as before__.
        - I will do it __as quickly as possible__.
    - not + as/so +  比较的内容 + as + 比较的对象
        - 和...相比还不如...
        - People are __not so honest as before__.
        - People are __not so honest as they were__.
        - People are __not so honest as they once were__.

# Lesson 33 Out of the darkness

## text
{% meting "28258354" "netease" "song" %}

Why was the girl in hospital?

Nearly a week passed before the girl was able to explain what had happened to her. One afternoon she set out from the coast in a small boat and was caught in a storm. Toward evening, the boat struck a rock and the girl jumped into the sea. Then she swam to the shore after spending the whole night in the water. During that time she covered a distance of eight miles. Early next morning, she saw a light ahead. She knew she was near the shore because the light was high up on the cliffs. On arriving at the shore, the girl struggled up the cliff towards the light she had seen. That was all she remembered. When she woke up a day latter, she found herself in hospital.

## Key Structure

- 表示地点的介词(prep.)
    - set out __from__ the coast
    - swam __to__ the shore
    - __towards__ the light she had seen
    - jumped __into__  the sea
    - __out of__ darkness
    - arriving __at__ the shore
    - __on__ the cliff
    - __in__ a small boat / __in__ a storm / __in__ hospital
    - Don't throw the rubbish __out of__ the window.
    - Please come __into__ the classroom and join us.
    - He is in shanghai, and he will fly __from__ Shanghai __to__ Beijing.
    - She hopes that she will stand __on__ the top of the highest mountain some day.
    - It is impolite to point __at__ people.
    - I put the laptop __in__ your bag.

- pass / past
    - pass 是个动词
    - past 唯独不能作动词
    - He __passed__ my house this morning.
    - He walked __past__ my house.
    - He tole me about his __past__ experiences.
    - He seem to live in the __past__.


# Lesson 34 Quick work 

## text
{% meting "28258355" "netease" "song" %}

How long had the police taken to find his bicycle?

Dan Robinson has been worried all week. Last Tuesday he received a letter from the local police. In the letter he was asked to call at the station. Dan wondered why he was wanted by the police, but he went to the station yesterday and now he is not worried anymore. At the station, he was told by a smiling policeman that his bicycle had been found. Five days ago, the policeman told him the bicycle was picked up in a small village four hundred miles away. It is now being sent to his home by train. Dan was most surprised when he heard the news. He was amused too, because he never expected the bicycle to be found. It was stolen twenty years ago when Dan was a boy of fifteen!

## Key Structure

- 复习被动语态

- 短语动词 call
    - 喊 -> 打电话 -> 拜访
    - He was asked to __call at__ the station.
    - He __called out__ to me but I did not hear him.
    - I __called on__ George yesterday.
    - She will __call__ you __up__ tomorrow.
    - It began to rain so we __called of__ the match.


# Lesson 35 Stop thief!

## text
{% meting "28258356" "netease" "song" %}

How did Roy stop the thieves?

Roy Trenton used to drive a taxi. A short while ago, however, he became a bus driver and he has not regretted it. He is finding his new work far more exciting. When he was driving along Catford Street recently, he saw two thieves rush out of a shop and run towards a waiting car. One of them was carrying a bag full of money. Roy acted quickly and drove the bus straight at the thieves. The one with the money got such a fright that he dropped the bag. As the thieves were trying to get away in their car, Roy drove his bus into the back of it. While the battered car was moving away,Roy stopped his bus and telephoned the police. The thieves car was badly damaged and easy to recognize. Shortly afterwards, the police stopped the car and both men were arrested.

## Key Structure

- __see__ sb. __do__ sth.
- __see__ sb. __doing__ sth

- __so... that ...__ / __such__ ... __that__ ...
    - 都表示：太...所以... (如此...以至于)
    - It is an interesting story. I want to share it with you.
        - It is __such__ __an interesting stroy__ that I want to share it with you.
    - I am tired. I want to sleep for an entire day.
        - I am __so__ __tired__ __that__ I want to sleep for an entire day.
    - It is a heavy box. I cannot carry it.
        - It is __such__ __a heavy box__ __that__ I cannot carry it.
    - The thieves ran away quickly. I didn't have time to call the police.
        - The thieves ran away __so__ __quickly__ __that__ I didn't have time to call the police.


# Lesson 36 Across the Channel

## text
{% meting "28258357" "netease" "song" %}

What is Debbie going to try to do?

Debbie Hart __is going to swim__ across the English Channel tomorrow. She __is going to set out__ from French coast at five o'clock in the morning. Debbie is only eleven years old and she hopes to set up a new world record. She is a strong swimmer and many people feel that she is sure to succeed. Debbie's father __will set out__ with her in a small boat. Mr.Hart has trained his daughter for years. Tomorrow he __will be watching__ her anxiously __as__ she swims the long distance to England. Debbie intends to take short rests every two hours. She will have something to drink but she will not eat any solid foot. Most of Debbie's school friends will waiting for her on the English coast. Among them will be Debbie's mother, who swam the Channel herself when she was a girl.

## Key Structure

- 复习表示将来的几种方式
    - 一般将来时
        - will / shall do
        - am / is / are going to do
    
    - 将来进行时
        - will / shall be doing

    - 一般现在时
        - do / does

    - 表示将来的词组
        - intend to do

- 限定性的定语从句
    - I met __your friend__ who was staying in Paris.
    - n.范围不确定 -> 要限定 -> 无逗号隔开

- 非限定性定语从句
    - I met __your mother__, who was staying in Paris.
    - n.范围确定 -> 不用限定 -> 有逗号隔开
    - 绝对确定
        - 独一无二的东西
        - 专有名词

- 限定性/非限定性的定语从句
    - This is __the wall which__ they built last week.
    - This is __the Great Wall, which__ is world-famous.
    - He came from Beijing __, which__ is the capital of China.
    - He came from a city __which/that__ is in the north of China.
    - This is the businessman __who/whom/that__ we are cooperating with.
    - This is Bill Gates __, whom__ many people know as the richest man.

- 练习
    - I will tell him the news, when he __comes__ back tomorrow.
    - As soon as the plane __will land__, I wll let you know.

# Lesson 37 The Olympic Games

## text
{% meting "28258358" "netease" "song" %}

When was the last time this country hosted the Olympic Games?

The Olympic Games will be held in our country in four years' time. As a great many people will be visiting the country, the government will be building new hotels, an immense stadium, and a new Olympic-standard swimming pool. The will also be building new roads and a special railway line. The Games will be held just outside the capital and the whole area will be called 'Olympic City'. Workers will have completed the new roads by the end of this year. By the end of next year, they will have finished work on the new stadium. The fantastic modern buildings have been designed by Kurt Gunter. Everybody will be watching anxiously as the new building go up. We are all very excited and are looking forward to the Olympic Games because they have never been held before in this country.

## Key Structure

- 将来完成时
    - 形式： will / shall + have done
    - 用法：
        - By the end of next year, the __will have finished__ work on the new stadium.

- 完成时态
    - 过去完成时
        - had done
    - 现在完成时
        - have / has done
    - 将来完成时
        - will have done
    - I __had worked__ here for 10 days __by last month__.
    - I __have worked__ here for 25 days __by now__.
    - I __will have worked__ here for 30 days __by next week__.

- will be done

- will be doing

- by + 时间
    - 通常接完成时

- 短语动词 look
    - We are __looking__ __forward to__ celebrating the Spring Festival.
    - __Look out__! A bus is coming.
    - I don't understand this word. I shall __look__ it __up__ in a dictionary.
    - Don't forget to __look__ me __up__ when you return.


# Lesson 38 Everything except the weather

## text
{% meting "28258359" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Harrison sell his house so quickly?

My old friend, Harrison, had lived in the Mediterranean for many years before he returned to England. He had often dreamed of retiring in England and had planned to settle down in the country. He had no sooner returned than he bought a house and went to live there. Almost immediately he began to complain about the weather, for even though it was still summer, it rained continually and it was often bitterly cold. After so many years of sunshine, Harrison got a shock. He acted as if he had never lived in England before. In the end, it was more than he could bear. He had hardly had time to settle down when he sold the house and left the country. The dream he had had for so many years ended there. Harrison had thought of everything except the weather.

## Key Structure

- 过去完成时 vs. 一般过去时

- no sooner ... than ...
    - "一 ... 就 ..."
    - Yesterday I __had no sooner got__ back to the kitchen __than__ the doorbell __rang__.

- hardly ... when ...

- 分析主谓
    - __The dream__(主语) ( __he__(主语) __had had__(谓语) for so many years )从句 __ended__(谓语) there.
    - She(主) __knew__(谓) she(主) __was__(谓) near the shore.
    - 主主谓谓，中间是从句
    - 主谓主谓，后面是从句
    - The present she gave me was very amazing.

## 单词
- continually 不断的(指反复持续，有间断)
- continuously 连续不断地(没有间断)


# Lesson 39 Am I all right?

## text
{% meting "28258360" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Mr.Gilbert telephone Dr.Millington?

While John Gilbert was in hospital, he asked his doctor to tell him whether his operation had been successful, but the doctor refused to do so. The following day, the patient asked for a bedside telephone. When he was alone, he telephoned the hospital exchange and asked for Doctor Millington. When the doctor answered the phone, Mr.John Gilbert said he was inquiring about a certain patient, a Mr.John Gilbert. He asked if Mr.Gilbert's operation had been successful and the doctor tole him that it had been. He then asked when Mr.Gilbert would be allowed to go home and the doctor told him that he would have to stay in hospital for anther two weeks. Then Dr.Millington asked the caller if he was a relative of the patient. 'No,' the patient answered, 'I am Mr.John Gilbert.'

## Key Structure

- 直接引语 变 间接引语(宾语从句)

- 练习
    - 'I'm very tired,' he said.
        - He said __he was very tired__.
    - 'Are they tired?' she asked.
        - She asked __whether/if they were tired__?
    - 'Will Jack arrive tomorrow?' Tome asked.
        - Tome asked __whether/if Jack would arrive the next day__.
    - 'Have you ever been abroad?' Tom asked.
        - Tome asked __whether/if you had ever been abroad__.
        - Tom asked __whether/if I had ever been abroad__.
    - 'Why didn't the write to me?' she asked.
        - She asked __why he hadn't write to her__.


# Lesson 40 Food and talk

## text
{% meting "28258361" "netease" "song" %}

Was Mrs.Rumbold a good companion at dinner?

Last week at a dinner party, the hostess asked me to sit next to Mrs.Rumbold. Mrs.Rumbold was a large, unsmiling lady in a tight black dress. She did not even look up when I took my seat beside her.  Her eyes were fixed on her plate and in a short time, she was busy eating. I tried to make conversation.  
'A new play is coming to "The Globe" soon,' I said. 'Will you be seeing it?'  
'No,' she answered.  
'Will you be spending your holidays abroad this year?' I asked.  
'No,' she answered.  
'Will you be staying in England?' I asked.  
'No,' she answered.  
In despair, I asked her whether she was enjoying her dinner.  
'Young man,' she answered, 'if you ate more and talked less, we would both enjoy our dinner!'

## Key Structure

- if 虚拟条件句（虚拟语气）
    - 与客观条件不相符，用虚拟条件句
    - 假设情况的可能性很小
    - 假设现在
        - if 从句
        - 一般过去时 did (were)
        - 主句 
            - could + do
            - would + do
            - should + do
            - might + do 
    - 例句
        - If were you, I __could not be__ so confident.
        - What would you do if you __won__ a lot of money?
        - He would enjoy this if he __were__ present.
        - I am not you, so I can't make the decision.
            - __If__ i __were__ you, I __cloud make__ the decision.
        - You make the arrangements, so it will save us a lot of trouble.
            - __If__ you __didn't make__ the arrangements, it __would not save__ us a lot of trouble.
        - I don't know his phone number, so I won't ring him up.
            - __If__ I __knew__ his phone number, I __would ring__ him up.
        - __If__ I __could rearrange__ the alphabet, I __would put__ U and I together.        

- 短语动词 make
    - I tried to __make conversation__.
    - When she had __make the beds__ she went downstairs.
    - You mustn't __make__ so much __noise__.
    - I __make a promise__ never to see him again.
    - He's the sort of person who always __makes trouble__.
    - He is learning English but he hasn't __made__ much __progress__.
    - He __made__ a lot of __money__ in South America.
    - I was asked to __make a speech__.
    - I'll never __make the same mistake__ again.
    - I found it difficult to __make up my mind__.

- 短语动词 do
    - He always __does his best__.
    - When did you __do your homework__?
    - __Do me a favour__ please.
    - I want you to __do Exercise__ 24 on page 16.
    - I __did__ a lot of __shopping__ yesterday.

# Lesson 41 Do you call that a hat?

## text
{% meting "28258362" "netease" "song" %}

What kink of shopping does the writer enjoy, do you think?

'Do you call that a hat?' I said to my wife.  
'You needn't be so rude about it,' my wife answered as she looked at herself in the mirror.  
I sat down on one of those modern chairs with holes in it and waited. We had been in the hat shop for half an hour and my wife was still in front of the mirror.  
'We mustn't buy things we don't need,' I remarked suddenly. I regretted saying it almost at once.  
'You needn't have said that,' my wife answered. 'I needn't remind you of that terrible tie you bought yesterday.'  
'I find it beautiful,' I said. 'A man can never have too many ties.'  
'And a woman can't have too many hats,' she answered.  
Ten minutes later we walked out of the shop together. My wife was wearing a hat that looked like a lighthouse!

## Key Structure

- need 
    - 实义动词
        - need sth. / sb.
        - need to do / need sb. to do
        - need doing
        - He needs some time.
        - he needs to have a rest.
        - He needs friends to help him.
        - Her bag needs mending.
        - 否定形式: __don't__ need
    - 情态动词
        - need do (通常用于否定疑问)
        - __Need I__ go to the meeting?
        - No, you __needn't__ (go to the meeting).
        - need do / needn't do
        - 真实表达！
        - need have done
            - 本来需要做某事，但事实没做
        - needn't have done
            - 本来不需要做某事，但事实上做了
        - 否定形式: needn't

- mustn't needn't
    - __Must__ I finish my homework today?
        - Yes, you must.
        - No, you __needn't__.


# Lesson 42 Not very musical

## text
{% meting "28258363" "netease" "song" %}

What happened when the snake charmer began to play jazz?

As we had had a long walk through one of the markets of Old Delhi, we stopped at a square to have a rest. After a time, we noticed a snake charmer with two large baskets at the other side of the square, so we went to have a look at him. As soon as he saw us, he picked up a long pipe which was covered with coins and opened one of the baskets. When he began to play a tune, we had our first glimpse of the snake. It rose out of the basket and began to follow the movements of the pipe. We were very much surprised when the snake charmer suddenly began to play jazz and modern pop songs. The snake, however, continued to 'dance' slowly. It obviously could not tell he difference between Indian music and jazz!

## Key Structure

- 复习have的用法(实义动词/助动词)
    - 实义动词
        - “有” 
        - “吃喝玩乐做”
        - “做”
    - 助动词（无实义，用于完成时态中）

- have a + n. = 对应的v.
    - have a walk(n.) = walk(v.)
    - have a rest = rest
    - have a look = look
    - have a swim = swim
    - have a sleep = sleep
    - have a walk = walk
    - have a drink = drink
    - have a talk = talk
    - have a try = try

- 练习
    - I __swam__ in the sea this morning.
        - I __had a swim__ in the sea this morning.
    - She is __resting__.
        - She is __having a rest__.
    - Did you __sleep well__ last night?
        - Did you __have a good sleep__ last night? 

# Lesson 43 Over the South Pole

## text
{% meting "28258364" "netease" "song" %}

How was the plane able to clear the mountains?

In 1929, three years after his flight over the North Pole, the American explorer, R.E Byrd, successfully flew over the South Pole for the first time. Though, at first, Byrd and his men were able to take a great many photographs of the mountains that lay below, they soon ran into serious trouble. At one point, it seemed certain that their plane would crash. It could only get over the mountains if it rose to 10,000 feet. Byrd at once ordered his men to throw out two heavy food sacks. The plane was then able to rise and it cleared the mountains by 400 feet. Byrd now knew that he would be able to reach the South Pole which was 300 miles away, for there were no more mountains in sight. The aircraft was able to fly over the endless white plains without difficulty.

## Key Structure

- can / be able to
    - 相同点：都表示能力，“能够”
        - （be able to 时态比can / would 灵活）
    - 不同点
        - 表示过去已经成功做到的，用was/were able to,不用 could
        - can 还可以表示猜测，允许

- 主语从句
    - 含义：一个主句做主语，放到另一个句子做主语
    - 位置：句首或句尾
    - 练习
        - 你不能跟我们一起去真是个遗憾
            - __That you can't go with us__ is a pity.
            - __It__ is a pity that __you can't go with us__.
        - 他们是否将会准时到达这不确定。
            - __Whether they will arrive here on time__ is uncertain.
            - It is uncertain __whether they will arrive here on time__.

- at 介词短语
    - at first 
    - at once 立刻，马上
    - at home
    - at present
    - at school
    - at last
    - at any rate 在任何程度上(好歹，最少能做到)
    - at times 有时候，偶尔
    - at heart 在内心深处
    - at a loss 不知所措

# Lesson 44 Through the forest

## text
{% meting "28258365" "netease" "song" %}

How did Mrs.Sterling get her bag back?

Mrs.Anne Sterling did not think of the risk she was taking when she ran through a forest after two men. They had rushed up to her while she was having a picnic at the edge of a forest with her children and tried to steal her handbag. In the struggle, the strap broke and, with the bag in their possession, both men started running through the trees. Mrs.Sterling got so angry that she ran after them. She was soon out of breath, but she continued to run. When she caught up with them, she saw that they had sat down and were going through the contents of the bag, so she ran straight at them. The men got such a fright that they dropped the bag and ran away. 'The strap needs mending,' said Mrs.Sterling later, 'but they did not steal anything.'

## Key Structure

- doing 动名词
    1. 做主语
        - __Fishing__ is my favorite sport.
    2. 介词后，作宾语
        - I often fish for hours without __catching anything__.
        - 特殊的介词to
            - I am looking forward to __seeing him__ tomorrow.
            - I am accustomed to __getting up early__.
            - I am used to __getting up early__.
    3. __有些__ 动词后，作宾语
        - The men __started to run__ through the trees.
            - = The men __started running__ through the trees.
            - start / begin / continue 接doing 与 to do 意思相同
        - I __hate to disturb__ you, but can I come in?
            - I __hate disturbing__ people when they are busy.
            - love / like / hate / dislike 接doing 与 to do 意思不同
        - The strap broke and it __needs mending__.
            - need doing 主动表示被动
    - 练习
        - I'd love __to see__ that film. Will it be on tomorrow?
        - He's accustomed to __working__ hard.
        - These shirts need __ironing__.
        - They continued __to argue__ till after midnight.
        - You must never come into his room without __knocking__ first.

# Lesson 45 A clear conscience

## text
{% meting "28258366" "netease" "song" %}

How did Sam get his money back?

The whole village soon learnt that a large sum of money had been lost. Sam Benton, the local butcher, had lost his wallet while taking his savings to the post office. Sam was sure that the wallet must have been found by one of the villagers, but it was not returned to him. Three months passed, and then one morning, Sam found his wallet outside his front door. It had been wrapped up in newspaper and it contained half the money he had lost, together with a note which said:'A thief, yes, but only 50 per cent a thief!' Two months later, some more money was sent to Sam with another note:'Only 25 per cent a thief now!' In time, all Sam's money was paid back in this way. The last note said:'I am 100 per cent honest now!'

## Key Structure

- 改写被动语态(去掉someone)
    - Someone has prepared a meal for you.
        - A meal __has been prepared__ for you
    - Someone will translate the book into English.
        - The book __will be translated__ into English.
    - Someone must send a telegram to him.
        - A telegram __must be sent__ to him.
    - Someone had put out the fire before the fire brigade arrived.
        - The fire __had been put__ out before the fire brigade arrived.
    - Someone gave the cat some milk to drink.
        - The cat __was given__ some milk to drink.


# Lesson 46 Expensive and uncomfortable

## text
{% meting "28258367" "netease" "song" %}

What did the man in this story do?

When a plane from London arrived at Sydney airport, workers began to unload a number of wooden boxes which contained clothing. No one could account for the fact that one of the boxes was extremely heavy. It suddenly occurred to one of the workers to open up the box. He was astonished at what he found. A man was lying in the box on top of a pile of woollen goods. He was so surprised at being discovered that he did not even try to run away. After he was arrested, the man admitted hiding in the box before the plane left London. He had had a long and uncomfortable trip, for he had been confined to the wooden box for over eighteen hours, The man was ordered to pay $3,500 for the cost of the trip. The normal price of a ticket is $2,000!


## Key Structure

- 同位语从句
    - 含义：一个句子作同位语，去解释前面的名词。
    - 位置：所解释的抽象名词后
    - fact, news, theory, idea, suggestion, report ...
    - 写法：同宾语从句
    - 练习
        - I have no doubt __that he will help me__
        - We support the argument __that the problems of school buses must be taken seriously__ 
        - We discuss the question __whether the meeting should be held__.
        - The plan __that new subway station will be built here__ is welcomed.

- 介词后的宾语从句

- doing / being done
    - I was puzzled at __being invited__ to the stranger's wedding.
    - She was amused at __talking__ with her new friend.
    - He was delighted at __being promoted__ to senior manager.
    - The thief was shocked at __being caught__ by the police.

- 后面可接 to / at / for / with
    - with
        - communicate with 与...联系
        - compare with 与...比较
        - correspond with 与...竞争
        - correspond with 与...一致
        - contrast with 与...对比
        - quarrel with 与...争吵
        - mix with 与...混合
        - confuse with 与...混淆
        - agree / comply with 同意/服从
        - begin/finish with 开始/结束
        - cope with 处理
        - ...
    - for
        - wait for 等候
        - thank for 感谢
        - prepare for 准备
        - pay for 付钱
        - search for 搜寻
        - look for 寻找
        - hope for 希望
        - ask for 请求
        - account for 解释
        - apologize for 道歉
        - blame for 责怪
        - ...
    - at
        - look / stare / glance at 看
        - amused / astonished / shocked / surprised at 感兴趣 / 惊讶
        - point / knock at 指着 / 敲
        - arrive / work at 达到/工作
    - to 
        - go / turn to 走向/转向
        - submit / surrender / yield to 服从/投降/屈服
        - reply / respond / react to 回答/响应/反应
        - apply to 适用于
        - attach to 附属于
        - belong to 属于
        - confine to 限制
        - listen to 听
        - object to 反对
        - prefer to 更喜欢
    - 练习
        - I don't agree __with__ you.
        - She preferred __to__ wait __for__ him.
        - I'm surprise __at__ you!
        - You must reply __to__ his letter.
        - Don't blame me __for__ the accident.
        - I knocked __at__ the door.
        - He turned __to__ me for help, even after I had quarrelled __with__ him.

# Lesson 47 A thirsty ghost

## text
{% meting "28258368" "netease" "song" %}

What evidence is there of a ghost?

A public house which was recently bought by Mr.Ian Thompson is up for sale. Mr.Thompson is going to sell it because it is haunted. He told me that he could not go to sleep one night because he heard a strange noise coming from the bar. The next morning, he found that the doors had been blocked by chairs and the furniture had been moved. Though Mr.Thompson had turned the lights off before he went to bed, they were on in the morning. He also said that he had found five empty whisky bottles which the ghost must have drunk the night before. When I suggested that some villagers must have come in for a free drink, Mr.Thompson shook his head. The villagers have told him that they will not accept the pub even if he give it away.

## Key Structure

- 句子的分类（按结构划分）
    1. 简单句
        - n. + v.
        - 主语 + 谓语
        - 谓语动词的变化
            - 时态，语态，情态，否定
    2. 并列句

    3. 复合句
        - 主句 + 从句
        - 从句
            - 名词性从句（主/宾/表/同位
            - 定语从句
            - 状语从句

# Lesson 48 Did you want to tell me something?

## text
{% meting "28258369" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the writer become very worried?

Dentists always ask questions when it is impossible for you to answer. My dentist had just pulled out one of my teeth and had told me to rest for a while. I tried to say something, but my mouth was full of cotton wool. He knew I collected match boxes and asked me whether my collection was growing. He then asked me how my brother was and whether I liked my new job in London. In answer to these questions I either nodded or made strange noises. Meanwhile, my tongue was busy searching out the hole where the tooth had been. I suddenly felt very worried, but could not say anything. When the dentist at last removed the cotton wool from my mouth, I was able to tell him that he had pulled ot the wrong tooth.

## Key Structure

- The new school, __which__ has just been completed, is a fine building.
- He __denied__ that he had taken it.
- The waiter __fetched__ me a clean glass.
- A bird flew __past__ my window.
- I spent the afternoon __watching__ the match.
- Ships __continuously__ cross the sea.
- The bank has been __robbed__.


