---
title: 《新概念英语二》49-54笔记
date: 2022-02-03 10:27:19
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 49 The end of a dream

## text
{% meting "28258370" "netease" "song" %}

How did the dream end?

Tired of sleeping on the floor, a young man in Teheran saved up for years to buy a real bed. For the first time in his life, he became the proud owner of a bed which had springs and a mattress. Because the weather was very hot, he carried the bed on to the roof of his house. He slept very well for the first two nights, but on the third night, a storm blew up. A gust of wind swept the bed off the roof and sent it crashing into the courtyard below. The young man did not wake up until the bed had struck the ground. Although the bed was smashed to pieces, the man was miraculously unhurt. When he woke up, he was still on the mattress. Glancing at the bits of wood and metal that lay around him, the man sadly picked up the mattress and carried it into his house. After he had put it on the floor, he promptly went to sleep again.

## Key Structure

- 复习合并句子
    - 并列句 vs. (主从)复合句
    - 简单句：一件事
    - 并列句：多件事一样重要
    - 复合句：多件事不一样重要
        - 主句 + 从句
- 状语从句的省略
    - __done作状语（表示被动）__
        - __Because she was punished__, she burst into tears.
            - __Because punished__, she burst into tears.
            - __Punished__, she burst into tears.
        - __When it is done too often__, this habit can sometimes hurt.
            - __When done too often__, this habit can sometimes hurt.
            - __Done too often__, this habit can sometimes hurt.
    - __doing作状语（表示主动）__
        - __While he was talking with me__, he broke his cup carelessly.
            - __While talking with me__, he broke his cup carelessly.
            - __Talking with me__, he broke his cup carelessly.
- 合并句子
    - He missed the train. He did not hurry.
        - He missed the train __because__ he did not hurry.
    - He ran fast. He failed to win the race.
        - __Although__ he ran fast, he failed to win the race.
        - He ran fast __but__ he failed to win the race.
    - My neighbor could not return home. He went to Tokyo for a holiday. He did not have enough money.
        - My neighbor, __who__ went to Tokyo for a holiday, cloud not return home, __because__ he did not have enough money.
    - The city was destroyed during the war. The city has not been completely rebuilt.
        - __Destroyed__ during the war, the city has not been completely rebuilt.
    - I found the door unlocked. I went into the kitchen.
        - __Finding__ the door unlocked, I went into the kitchen.
    - I went into the garden. I wanted to pick some flowers.
        - I went into the garden __to pick__ some flowers.

# Lesson 50 Taken for a ride

## text
{% meting "28258371" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the writer not get off the bus at Woodford Green?

I love travelling in the country, but I don't like losing my way.  
I went on an excursion recently, but my trip took me longer than I expected.  
'I'm going to Woodford Green,' I said to the conductor as I got on the bus, 'but I don't know where it is.'  
'I'll tell you where to get off,' answered the conductor.  
I sat in the front of the bus to get a good view of the countryside. After some time, the bus stopped. Looking round, I realized with a shock that I was the only passenger left on the bus.  
'You'll have to get off here,' the conductor said. 'This is as far as we go.'  
'Is this Woodford Green?' I asked.  
'Oh dear,' said the conductor suddenly. 'I forgot to put you off.'  
'It doesn't matter,' I said. 'I'll get off here.'  
'We're going back now,' said the conductor.  
'Well, in that case, I prefer to stay on the bus,' I answered.

## Key Structure

- 复习doing / done / to do 作定语/状语

- 宾语从句的省略

- 易混淆词：
    - lost
        - I don't like __losing__ my way.
    - loose
        - Several screws have come __loose__. I'll have to tighten them.
    - miss
        - We haven't seen you for a long time. We have __missed__ you.
        - We must hurry or we'll __miss__ the train.
    
    - expect
        - My trip took me longer than I __expected__.
    - wait for
        - I am __expecting__ Jack to arrive at six o'clock, but I shall not __wait for__ him if he is not here by 6:15.

# Lesson 51 Reward for virtue

## text
{% meting "28258372" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Hugh's diet not work?

My friend, Hugh, has always been fat, but things got so bad recently that he decided to go on a diet. He began his diet a week ago. First of all, he wrote out a long list of all the foods which were forbidden. The list included most of the things Hugh loves: butter, potatoes,rice, beer, milk, chocolate, and sweets. Yesterday I paid him a visit. I rang the bell and was not surprised to see that Hugh was still as fat as ever. He led me into his room and hurriedly hid a large parcel under his desk. It was obvious that he was very embarrassed. When I asked him what he was doing, he smiled guiltily and then put the parcel on the desk. He explained that his diet was so strict that he had to reward himself occasionally. Then he showed me the contents of the parcel. It contained five large bars of chocolate and three bags of sweets!

## Key Structure

- 复习一般过去时

- 易混淆词
    - include / contain
        - include 抽象的包含
        - contain 真实的包含
    - raise(vt.及物动词) vs. rise(vi.不及物动词)
        - raise
            - That boy always __raises__ his hand when I ask a question.
            - Heavy rain __have raised__ the level of the river. 
        - rise
            - The sun __has__ just __risen__.
            - I always __rise__ at six o'clock.
    - lay vs. lie
        - lie v
            - 躺/处于，位于 lie lay lain
            - 说谎 lie lied lied lying
        - lay 
            - 表示过去的“躺/处于，位于”
            - 不表示过去，作动词原形。表示“放置，摆放/产卵，下蛋” lay laid laid
        - __Lay__ those parcels on the floor, please.
        - Haven't you __laid__ the table yet?
        - It is nice go get up in the morning, but it's nicer to __lie__ in bed.
        - I __lay__ in bed till 10 o'clock last Sunday morning.
    

# Lesson 52 A pretty carpet

## text
{% meting "28258374" "netease" "song" %}

What is the writer's carpet made of?

We have just moved into a new house and I have been working hard all morning. I have been trying to get my new room in order. This has not been easy because I own over a thousand books. To make matters worse, the room is rather small, so I have temporarily put my books on the floor. At the moment, they cover every inch of floor space and I actually have to walk on them to get in or out of the room. A short while ago, my sister helped me to carry one of my old bookcases up the stairs. She went into my room and got a big surprise when she saw all those books on the floor. 'This is the prettiest carpet I have ever seen,' she said. She gazed at it for some time then added, 'You don't need bookcases at all, You can sit here in your spare time and read the carpet!'

## Key Structure

- 现在完成时
    - 形式：have/has done
    - 用法：现在的之前，强调事情完成的结果。（不一定要完成
- 现在完成进行时
    - 形式：have/has been doing
    - 用法：现在的之前，强调事情进行的过程
    - 例句
        - I have been studying English all morning.
        - It has been raining for a week.
        - We have been living here since I was born.

|两种时态|现在完成时|现在完成进行时|
|-------|----------|------------|
|角度相同|现在的之前|现在的之前|
|强调不同|强调完成的结果(做完与否都可以)|强调持续的过程|
|例句|We have not won the match.|We have been working hard for several months|

- 形容词最高级 + n. + sb. have ever done
    - You are the most beautiful girl I have ever seen.
    - This is the most exciting news we have ever heard.
    - That is one of the most foolish things I have ever done.



# Lesson 53 Hot snake

## text
{% meting "28258375" "netease" "song" %}

What caused the fire?

At last firemen have put out a big forest fire in California. Since then, they have been trying to find out how the fire began. Forest fires are often caused by broken glass or by cigarette ends which people carelessly throw away. Yesterday the firemen examined the ground carefully, but were not able to find any broken glass. They were also quite sure that a cigarette end did not start the fire. This morning, however, a fireman accidentally discovered the cause. He noticed the remains of a snake which was wound round the electric wires of a 16,000-volt power line. In this way, he was able to solve the mystery. The explanation was simple but very unusual. A bird had snatched up the snake from the ground and the dropped it on to the wires. The snake then wound itself round the wires. When it did so, it sent sparks down to the ground and these immediately started a fire.

## Key Structure

- 一般过去时 did

- 现在完成时 have / has done

- 现在完成进行时 have / has been doing

- throw to / throw at / throw away
    - Forest fires are often caused by broken glass or by cigarette ends which people carelessly __throw away__.
    - He __threw__ the ball __to__ me and I caught it.
    - The boy __threw__ a stone __at__ the window and broke.

- quite / quiet
    - They were also __quite__ sure that a cigarette end did not start the fire.
    - The class kept very __quiet__ during the lesson.

- drop / fall
    - A bird had __dropped__ the snake on to the wires.(把别的东西丢掉)
    - He __fell__ down the stairs and broke his leg.(自己掉)


# Lesson 54 Sticky fingers

## text
{% meting "28258376" "netease" "song" %}

What two interruptions did the writer have?

After breakfast, I sent the children to school and then I went to the shops. It was still early when I returned home. The children were at school, my husband was at work and the house was quiet. So I decided to make some meat pies. In a short time I was busy mixing butter and flour and my hands were soon covered with sticky pastry. At exactly that moment, the telephone rang. Nothing could have been more annoying. I picked up the receiver between two sticky fingers and was dismayed when I recognized the voice of Helen Bates. It took me ten minutes to persuade her to ring back later. At last I hung up the receiver. What a mess! There was pastry on my fingers, on the telephone, and on the doorknobs. I had no sooner got back to the kitchen than the doorbell rang loud enough to wake the dead. This time it was the postman and he wanted me to sign for a registered letter!

## Key Structure

- 定冠词 the 的用法
    - the + adj. 表示一类
        - the dead
        - the living
        - the rich
        - the poor
        - the deaf
        - the blind
    
    - I __went to the school__ in our village to meet my friend.
        - The children __went to school__ this morning.
    - It is __the most__ interesting film I have ever seen.
        - __Most__ people enjoyed it.