---
title: 《新概念英语二》49~72笔记
date: 2022-02-19 15:26:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
top_img: https://github.com/mourenZhu/pictures/blob/main/notes/%E6%96%B0%E6%A6%82%E5%BF%B5%E8%8B%B1%E8%AF%AD%E4%BA%8C%E5%B0%81%E9%9D%A2%E5%9B%BE%E7%89%87.jpg?raw=true
cover: https://github.com/mourenZhu/pictures/blob/main/notes/%E6%96%B0%E6%A6%82%E5%BF%B5%E8%8B%B1%E8%AF%AD%E4%BA%8C%E5%B0%81%E9%9D%A2%E5%9B%BE%E7%89%87.jpg?raw=true
---

# Lesson 49 The end of a dream

## text
{% meting "28258370" "netease" "song" %}

How did the dream end?

Tired of sleeping on the floor, a young man in Teheran saved up for years to buy a real bed. For the first time in his life, he became the proud owner of a bed which had springs and a mattress. Because the weather was very hot, he carried the bed on to the roof of his house. He slept very well for the first two nights, but on the third night, a storm blew up. A gust of wind swept the bed off the roof and sent it crashing into the courtyard below. The young man did not wake up until the bed had struck the ground. Although the bed was smashed to pieces, the man was miraculously unhurt. When he woke up, he was still on the mattress. Glancing at the bits of wood and metal that lay around him, the man sadly picked up the mattress and carried it into his house. After he had put it on the floor, he promptly went to sleep again.

## Key Structure

- 复习合并句子
    - 并列句 vs. (主从)复合句
    - 简单句：一件事
    - 并列句：多件事一样重要
    - 复合句：多件事不一样重要
        - 主句 + 从句
- 状语从句的省略
    - __done作状语（表示被动）__
        - __Because she was punished__, she burst into tears.
            - __Because punished__, she burst into tears.
            - __Punished__, she burst into tears.
        - __When it is done too often__, this habit can sometimes hurt.
            - __When done too often__, this habit can sometimes hurt.
            - __Done too often__, this habit can sometimes hurt.
    - __doing作状语（表示主动）__
        - __While he was talking with me__, he broke his cup carelessly.
            - __While talking with me__, he broke his cup carelessly.
            - __Talking with me__, he broke his cup carelessly.
- 合并句子
    - He missed the train. He did not hurry.
        - He missed the train __because__ he did not hurry.
    - He ran fast. He failed to win the race.
        - __Although__ he ran fast, he failed to win the race.
        - He ran fast __but__ he failed to win the race.
    - My neighbor could not return home. He went to Tokyo for a holiday. He did not have enough money.
        - My neighbor, __who__ went to Tokyo for a holiday, cloud not return home, __because__ he did not have enough money.
    - The city was destroyed during the war. The city has not been completely rebuilt.
        - __Destroyed__ during the war, the city has not been completely rebuilt.
    - I found the door unlocked. I went into the kitchen.
        - __Finding__ the door unlocked, I went into the kitchen.
    - I went into the garden. I wanted to pick some flowers.
        - I went into the garden __to pick__ some flowers.

# Lesson 50 Taken for a ride

## text
{% meting "28258371" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the writer not get off the bus at Woodford Green?

I love travelling in the country, but I don't like losing my way.  
I went on an excursion recently, but my trip took me longer than I expected.  
'I'm going to Woodford Green,' I said to the conductor as I got on the bus, 'but I don't know where it is.'  
'I'll tell you where to get off,' answered the conductor.  
I sat in the front of the bus to get a good view of the countryside. After some time, the bus stopped. Looking round, I realized with a shock that I was the only passenger left on the bus.  
'You'll have to get off here,' the conductor said. 'This is as far as we go.'  
'Is this Woodford Green?' I asked.  
'Oh dear,' said the conductor suddenly. 'I forgot to put you off.'  
'It doesn't matter,' I said. 'I'll get off here.'  
'We're going back now,' said the conductor.  
'Well, in that case, I prefer to stay on the bus,' I answered.

## Key Structure

- 复习doing / done / to do 作定语/状语

- 宾语从句的省略

- 易混淆词：
    - lost
        - I don't like __losing__ my way.
    - loose
        - Several screws have come __loose__. I'll have to tighten them.
    - miss
        - We haven't seen you for a long time. We have __missed__ you.
        - We must hurry or we'll __miss__ the train.
    
    - expect
        - My trip took me longer than I __expected__.
    - wait for
        - I am __expecting__ Jack to arrive at six o'clock, but I shall not __wait for__ him if he is not here by 6:15.

# Lesson 51 Reward for virtue

## text
{% meting "28258372" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Hugh's diet not work?

My friend, Hugh, has always been fat, but things got so bad recently that he decided to go on a diet. He began his diet a week ago. First of all, he wrote out a long list of all the foods which were forbidden. The list included most of the things Hugh loves: butter, potatoes,rice, beer, milk, chocolate, and sweets. Yesterday I paid him a visit. I rang the bell and was not surprised to see that Hugh was still as fat as ever. He led me into his room and hurriedly hid a large parcel under his desk. It was obvious that he was very embarrassed. When I asked him what he was doing, he smiled guiltily and then put the parcel on the desk. He explained that his diet was so strict that he had to reward himself occasionally. Then he showed me the contents of the parcel. It contained five large bars of chocolate and three bags of sweets!

## Key Structure

- 复习一般过去时

- 易混淆词
    - include / contain
        - include 抽象的包含
        - contain 真实的包含
    - raise(vt.及物动词) vs. rise(vi.不及物动词)
        - raise
            - That boy always __raises__ his hand when I ask a question.
            - Heavy rain __have raised__ the level of the river. 
        - rise
            - The sun __has__ just __risen__.
            - I always __rise__ at six o'clock.
    - lay vs. lie
        - lie v
            - 躺/处于，位于 lie lay lain
            - 说谎 lie lied lied lying
        - lay 
            - 表示过去的“躺/处于，位于”
            - 不表示过去，作动词原形。表示“放置，摆放/产卵，下蛋” lay laid laid
        - __Lay__ those parcels on the floor, please.
        - Haven't you __laid__ the table yet?
        - It is nice go get up in the morning, but it's nicer to __lie__ in bed.
        - I __lay__ in bed till 10 o'clock last Sunday morning.
    

# Lesson 52 A pretty carpet

## text
{% meting "28258374" "netease" "song" %}

What is the writer's carpet made of?

We have just moved into a new house and I have been working hard all morning. I have been trying to get my new room in order. This has not been easy because I own over a thousand books. To make matters worse, the room is rather small, so I have temporarily put my books on the floor. At the moment, they cover every inch of floor space and I actually have to walk on them to get in or out of the room. A short while ago, my sister helped me to carry one of my old bookcases up the stairs. She went into my room and got a big surprise when she saw all those books on the floor. 'This is the prettiest carpet I have ever seen,' she said. She gazed at it for some time then added, 'You don't need bookcases at all, You can sit here in your spare time and read the carpet!'

## Key Structure

- 现在完成时
    - 形式：have/has done
    - 用法：现在的之前，强调事情完成的结果。（不一定要完成
- 现在完成进行时
    - 形式：have/has been doing
    - 用法：现在的之前，强调事情进行的过程
    - 例句
        - I have been studying English all morning.
        - It has been raining for a week.
        - We have been living here since I was born.

|两种时态|现在完成时|现在完成进行时|
|-------|----------|------------|
|角度相同|现在的之前|现在的之前|
|强调不同|强调完成的结果(做完与否都可以)|强调持续的过程|
|例句|We have not won the match.|We have been working hard for several months|

- 形容词最高级 + n. + sb. have ever done
    - You are the most beautiful girl I have ever seen.
    - This is the most exciting news we have ever heard.
    - That is one of the most foolish things I have ever done.



# Lesson 53 Hot snake

## text
{% meting "28258375" "netease" "song" %}

What caused the fire?

At last firemen have put out a big forest fire in California. Since then, they have been trying to find out how the fire began. Forest fires are often caused by broken glass or by cigarette ends which people carelessly throw away. Yesterday the firemen examined the ground carefully, but were not able to find any broken glass. They were also quite sure that a cigarette end did not start the fire. This morning, however, a fireman accidentally discovered the cause. He noticed the remains of a snake which was wound round the electric wires of a 16,000-volt power line. In this way, he was able to solve the mystery. The explanation was simple but very unusual. A bird had snatched up the snake from the ground and the dropped it on to the wires. The snake then wound itself round the wires. When it did so, it sent sparks down to the ground and these immediately started a fire.

## Key Structure

- 一般过去时 did

- 现在完成时 have / has done

- 现在完成进行时 have / has been doing

- throw to / throw at / throw away
    - Forest fires are often caused by broken glass or by cigarette ends which people carelessly __throw away__.
    - He __threw__ the ball __to__ me and I caught it.
    - The boy __threw__ a stone __at__ the window and broke.

- quite / quiet
    - They were also __quite__ sure that a cigarette end did not start the fire.
    - The class kept very __quiet__ during the lesson.

- drop / fall
    - A bird had __dropped__ the snake on to the wires.(把别的东西丢掉)
    - He __fell__ down the stairs and broke his leg.(自己掉)


# Lesson 54 Sticky fingers

## text
{% meting "28258376" "netease" "song" %}

What two interruptions did the writer have?

After breakfast, I sent the children to school and then I went to the shops. It was still early when I returned home. The children were at school, my husband was at work and the house was quiet. So I decided to make some meat pies. In a short time I was busy mixing butter and flour and my hands were soon covered with sticky pastry. At exactly that moment, the telephone rang. Nothing could have been more annoying. I picked up the receiver between two sticky fingers and was dismayed when I recognized the voice of Helen Bates. It took me ten minutes to persuade her to ring back later. At last I hung up the receiver. What a mess! There was pastry on my fingers, on the telephone, and on the doorknobs. I had no sooner got back to the kitchen than the doorbell rang loud enough to wake the dead. This time it was the postman and he wanted me to sign for a registered letter!

## Key Structure

- 定冠词 the 的用法
    - the + adj. 表示一类
        - the dead
        - the living
        - the rich
        - the poor
        - the deaf
        - the blind
    
    - I __went to the school__ in our village to meet my friend.
        - The children __went to school__ this morning.
    - It is __the most__ interesting film I have ever seen.
        - __Most__ people enjoyed it.

# Lesson 55 Not a gold mind

## text
{% meting "28258377" "netease" "song" %}

What did the team find?

Dreams of finding lost treasure almost came true recently. A new machine called 'The Revealer' has been invented and it has been used to detect gold which has been buried in the ground. The machine was used in a cave near the seashore where - it is said - pirates used to hide gold. The pirates would often bury gold in the cave and then fail to collect it. Armed with the new machine, a search party went into the cave hoping to find buried treasure. The leader of the party was examining the soil near the entrance to the cave when the machine showed that there was gold under the ground. Very excited, the party dug a hole two feet deep. They finally found a small gold coin which was almost worthless. The party then searched the whole cave thoroughly but did not find anything except an empty tin trunk. In spite of this, many people are confident that 'The Revealer' may reveal something of value fairly soon. 

## Key Structure

- 过去常常做某事：used to do sth. / would do sth.
    - used to do sth.
        - 过去常常做某事，现在确定不做了
        - 过去的状态(静态)
    - would 都 sth.
        - 过去常常做某事，现在做不做不知道
        - 不能用于故事的开头
    - I __used to__ go to work by bus. Now I go by car.
    - I __used to__ be a student. I __used to__ have many pen-friends.
    - When I was a boy, I __used to__ spent my holiday in a factory. I __would__ get up at 5:00 and __would__ start working at 6:00.

- 总结非谓语动词
    - 什么是非谓语动词？--还是动词，但不作谓语
    - 什么时候用非谓语动词？--有谓语动词了，就要用非谓语动词了
    - 非谓语动词分几种？
        - doing / done / to do
    - 非谓语动词的作用
        - 相当于名词用，作主语/宾语/表语(doing / to do)
            - 作主语
                - __Fishing__ is my favourite sport.
                - __To fish__ is my favourite sport.
                - __It__ was his job __to repair bicycles__.
            - 作宾语
                - I often fish for hours without __catching anything__.
                - Both men started __running through the trees__.
                - Both men started __to run through the trees__.
            - 作表语
                - My dream is __travelling around the world__.
                - My dream is __to travel around the world__.
        - 修饰名词/句子,作定语/状语(doing / done / to do)
            - 修饰名词，作定语
                - __Passing planes__ can be heard night and day.
                - I was the only __passenger left on the bus__.
                - I have a lot of __homework to do__.
            - 修饰句子，作状语
                - __Looking round__, I realized that I was the only passenger.
                - __Armed with the new machine__, they went into the cave.
                - I sat in the front of the bus __to get a good view__ ...

- 写作拓展
    - something __of value__ = something __valuable__
    - something __of great value__ = something __very valuable__
    - very important = of great importance
    - very different = of great difference
    - Your final exam is of great importance.
    - Chinese and English are of great difference.

- 区分易混淆词组：
    - used to do sth.
        - 过去常常做某事，现在不做了
    - be used to do sth.
        - 被用来去做某事
    - be used to sth./doing sth.
        - 习惯于某物/做某事
    - The machine has __been used to detect gold__ which has been buried in the ground.
    - The machine was used in a cave near the seashore where pirates __used to hide gold__.
    - I __am used to staying up late__.
    - She didn't like this district at first, but she __is used to it__ now.
    - 练习
        - I __used to__ see him often.
        - I __am used to__ swimming in cold water.
        - He __used to__ buy two bars of chocolate.
        - I couldn't stand the noise at first but I __am used to__ it now.

# Lesson 56 Faster than sound!

## text
{% meting "28258378" "netease" "song" %}

How fast did the winning car go?

Once a year, a race is held for old cars. A lot of cars entered for this race last year and there was a great deal of excitement just before it began. One of the most handsome cars was a Rolls-Royce Silver Ghost. The most unusual car was a Benz which had only three wheels. Built in 1885, it was the oldest car taking part. After a great many loud explosions, the race began. Many of the cars broke down on the course and some drivers spent more time under their cars than in them! A few cars, however, completed the race. The winning car reached a speed of forty miles an hour - much faster than any of its rivals. It sped downhill at the end of the race and it driver had a lot of trouble trying to stop it. The race gave everyone a great deal of pleasure. It was very different from modern car races but no less exciting.

## Key Structure

- 复习形容词/副词的比较级/最高级

- 其他表示比较的词/词组
    - 修饰不可数名词，表示“许多，大量”
        - much
        - a great deal (of ...)
        - a lot (of ...)
        - There isn't __much__ I can do to help him.
    - 修饰可数名词，表示“许多，大量”
        - many | a great many (of ...)
        - a great number (of ...)
        - a lot (of ...)
        - __Many__ of our products are sold overseas.
    - 修饰或指代不可数名词
        - much
        - a great deal (of ...)
        - a lot (of ...)
        - a little 
        - little
        - The is __little__ I can do to help him.
        - There isn't __much__ whisky, but you can have __a little__.
    - 修饰或指代可数名词
        - many
        - a great many (of ...)
        - a lot (of ...)
        - a great number (of ...)
        - a few
        - few
        - There aren't __many__ apples, but you can pick __a few__.
        - There were __few__ people in the shop.

- 区分易混淆词：
    - handsome - 帅的，通常用于修饰男性
    - beautiful - 美丽的、漂亮的，通常用于修饰女性
    - pretty - 美丽的、漂亮的，通常用于修饰女性
    - good-looking - 中性的修饰词

    - reach : 到达某个程度，达到某个高度
        - The winning car __reached__ a speed of forty miles an hour.
        - Will you pass me that book please? I can't __reach__ it.
        - I had nearly __reached__ the town, when the young man suddenly said ...
    - arrive in/at : 专门用于到达某个地点
        - We __arrived in__ New York yesterday.
        - We __arrive at__ the station in good time.
    
    - take part : 参加
        - It was the oldest car __taking part__.
    - take place : 发生...事
        - The next race will __take place__ in a year's time.


# Lesson 57 Can I help you, madam?

## text
{% meting "28258379" "netease" "song" %}

Did the woman get what she wanted?

A woman in jeans stood at the window of an expensive shop. Though she hesitated for a moment, she finally went in and asked to see a dress that was in the window. The assistant who served her did not like the way she was dressed. Glancing at her scornfully, he told her that the dress was sold. The woman walked out of the shop angrily and decided to punish the assistant next day. She returned to the shop the following morning dressed in a fur coat, with a handbag in one hand and long umbrella in the other. After seeking out the rude assistant, she asked for the same dress. Not realizing who she was, the assistant was eager to serve her this time. With great difficulty, he climbed into the shop window to get the dress. As soon as she saw it, the woman said she did not like it. She enjoyed herself making the assistant bring almost everything in the window before finally buying the dress she had first asked for.

## Key Structure

- 复习介词
    - in / on / at
    - to
    - into / out of
    - with

- make sb. do / let sb. do
    - 使某人做某事/让某人做某事
    - make sb. do
        - 有强迫的意味
        - She __made the assistant bring__ almost everything in the window.
        - The teacher __made the boy write__ the exercise again.
    - let sb. do
        - 1.提出建议
        - Let's take a taxi.
        - 2.允许、许可
        - Don't let the children touch anything in this room please.

# Lesson 58 A blessing in disguise?

## text
{% meting "28258380" "netease" "song" %}

Why does the vicar refuse to cut down the tree?

The tiny village of Frinley is said to possess a 'cursed tree'. Because the tree was mentioned in a newspaper, the number of visitors to Frinley has now increased. The tree was planted near the church fifty years ago, but it is only in recent years that it has gained an evil reputation. It is said that if anyone touches the tree, he will have bad luck; if he picks a leaf, he will die. Many villagers believe that the tree has already claimed a number of victims. The vicar has been asked to have the tree cut down, but so far he has refused. He has pointed out that the tree is a useful source of income, as tourists have been coming from all parts of the country to see it. In spite of all that has been said, the tourists have been picking leaves and cutting their names on the tree-trunk. So far, not one of them has been struck down by sudden death!

## Key Structure

- 复习被动语态
    - 双宾语动词的被动语态
        - She gave __me__ a pen = She gave __a pen__ to me.
            - I was given a pen by her.
            - A pen was given to me by her.
        - The manager offered __the vacant post__ to him.
            - __The vacant post__ was offered to him by the manager.
        - The manager offered __him__ the vacant post.
            - __He__ was offered the vacant post by the manager.
    - 被动语态在写作中的应用
        - __People say (that)__ he is a genius.
            - He __is said to__ be a genius.
            - __It is said that__ he is a genius.
        - __People say (that)__ there is oil under the North Sea.
            - There __is said to__ be oil under the North Sea.
            - __It is said that__ there is oil under the North Sea.

- 强调句
    - 构成：it is + 强调的部分 + that + 句子余下的部分
    - 变化：it is/was + 强调的部分 + that/who + 句子余下的部分
    - __Tom__ went camping with Jenny.
        - __It was__ Tom __that/who__ went camping with Jenny.
    - We used to have meetings __in the cafe__.
        - __It was__ in the cafe __that__ we used to have meetings.
    - Men can solve the problems of natural disaster __only by controlling the environmental pollution__.
        - __It is__ only by controlling the environmental pollution __that__ Men can solve the problems of natural disaster.
    - 不能强调什么？
        - 不能强调形容词和动词。
        - __It was__ obvious __that__ he was very embarrassed. (不是强调句)
        - __It is__ said __that__ he has returned from England. (不是强调句)

- the number of + 可数名词复数 "...的数量"
    - 前面作主语，后面接单数动词
    - __The number of__ the students __is__ 5000.

- a number of + 可数名词复数 "许多/大量的..."
    - 前面作主语，后面接复数动词
    - A number of students __are__ coming here.

# Lesson 59 In or out?

## text
{% meting "28258381" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Rex run away?

Our dog, Rex, used to sit outside our front gate and bark. Every time he wanted to come into the garden he would bark until someone opened the gate. As the neighbors complained of the noise, my husband spent weeks training him to press his paw on the latch to let himself in. Rex soon became an expert at opening the gate. However, when I was going out shopping last week, I noticed him in the garden near the gate. This time he was barking so that someone would let him out! Since then, he has developed another bad habit. As soon as he opens the gate from the outside, he comes into the garden and waits until the gate shuts. Then he sits and barks until someone lets him out. After this he immediately lets himself in and begins barking again. Yesterday my husband removed the gate and Rex got so annoyed we have not seen him since.

## Key Structure

- 复习课

- 表示目的的几种方式
    - to do / in order to do / so as to do
    - so that / in order that + 句子(有情态动词)
    - 练习
        - He ran to the station. He wanted to catch the last train.
            - He ran to the station __to / in order to / so as to__ catch the last train. 
            - He ran to the station __so that / in order that__ he would catch the last train.
        - I opened the door quietly. I didn't want to disturb him.
            - I opened the door quietly __not to / in order not to / so as not to__ disturb him.
            - I opened the door quietly __so that / in order that__ I would not disturb him.
        - The thief ran quickly. The policeman couldn't catch him.
            - The thief ran quickly __so that / in order that__ the policeman couldn't catch him.

- so that
    - He ran to the station __so that__ he caught the train.(结果状语从句)
    - He ran to the station __so that__ he might catch the train.(目的状语从句)


# Lesson 60 The future

## text
{% meting "28258382" "netease" "song" %}

Does what Madam Bellinsky said come true?

At a village fair, I decided to visit a fortune-teller called Madam Bellinsky. I went into her tent and she told me to sit down. After I had given her some money, she looked into a crystal ball and said:'A relation of yours is coming to see you. She will be arriving this evening and intends to stay for a few days. The moment you leave this tent, you will get a big surprise. A woman you know well will rush toward you. She will speak to you and then she will lead you away from this place. That is all.'  
As soon as I went outside, I forgot all about Madam Bellinsky because my wife hurried towards me. 'Where have you been hiding?' she asked impatiently. 'Your sister will be here in less than an hour and we must be at the station to meet her. We are late already.' As she walked away, I followed her out of the fair.

## Key Structure

- 复习表示将来的各种时态
    - 一般将来时
        - will do | am/is/are going to do
    - 现在进行时
        - am/is/are doing
    - 将来进行时
        - will be doing
    - 一般现在时
        - do / does

# Lesson 61 Trouble with the Hubble

## text
{% meting "28258383" "netease" "song" %}

What is the special importance of a telescope in space?

The Hubble telescope was launched into space by NASA on April 20, 1990 at a cost of over a billion dollars. Right from the start there was trouble with the Hubble. The pictures it sent us were very disappointing because its main mirror was faulty! NASA is now going to put the telescope right, so it will soon be sending up four astronauts to repair it. The shuttle _Endeavour_ will be taking the astronauts to the Hubble. A robot-arm from the _Endeavour_ will grab the telescope and hold it while the astronauts make the necessary repairs. Of course, the Hubble is above the earth's atmosphere, so it will soon be sending us the clearest pictures of the stars and distant galaxies that we have ever seen. The Hubble will tell us a great deal about the age and size of the universe. By the time you read this, the Hubble's eagle ete will have sent us thousands and thousands of wonderful pictures.

## Key Structure

- 将来完成时 will/shall have done
    1. by + 将来的时间
        - He __will have arrived__ by this time tomorrow.
        - He will phone us later today. He __will have received__ his exam results __by then__.
    2. by the time + 一般现在时的句子(表示将来)
        - The conference __will have lasted__ a full week __by the time it ends__.
        - __By the time he arrives in Beijing__, we __will have stayed__ here for two days.
- 将来进行时
    - I __will be writing__ letters all day tomorrow.
- 将来完成进行时 will/shall have been doing
    - By Friday midday, the __will have been working__ on it for seven days.
- 练习
    - By next Sunday, the __will have finished__(finish) all the preparation.
    - They __will have been preparing__ for a month.

- 分析长难句的步骤
    1. 准备：数谓语动词
    2. 断开：标点 / 连接词 / 分析主谓

# Lesson 62 After the fire

## text
{% meting "28258384" "netease" "song" %}

What was the danger to the villages after the fire?

Firemen had been fighting the forest fire for nearly three weeks before they could get it under control. A short time before, great trees had covered the countryside for miles around. Now, smoke still rose up from the warm ground over the desolate hills. Winter was coming on and the hill threatened the surrounding villages with destruction, for heavy rain would not only wash away the soil but would cause serious floods as well. When the fire had at last been put out, the forest authorities ordered several tons of a special type of grass-seed which would grow quickly. The seed was sprayed over the ground in huge quantities by airplanes. The planes had been planting seed for nearly a month when it began to rain. By then, however, in many places the grass had already taken root. In place of the great trees which had been growing there for centuries, patches of green had begun to appear in the blackened soil.

## Key Structure

- 过去完成时
    - 形式：had done
    - 用法：过去的之前，强调事情完成的结果
- 过去完成进行时
    - 形式：had been doing
    - 用法：过去的之前，强调事情进行的过程

|两种时态|过去完成时 had done | 过去完成进行时 had been doing |
|-------|-------------------|------------------------------|
|角度相同|“过去的之前”|“过去的之前”|
|强调不同|强调完成的结果(做完与否都可以)|强调持续进行的过程|
|例句|Firemen __had put__ out the fire.|Firemen __had been fighting__ the fire for three weeks.|

- great vs. big
    - great 还包含重要性
    - 仅表示大

- 复习表示过去的时态
    - 一般过去时 did
    - 过去进行时 was/were doing 进行
    - 过去将来时 would do 之后
    - 过去完成时 had done 之前 + 结果
    - 过去完成进行时 had been doing 之前 + 过程

# Lesson 63

## text
{% meting "28258385" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Jenny want to leave the wedding reception?

Jeremy Hampden has a large circle of friends and is very popular at parties. Everybody admires him for his great sense of humour - everybody, that is, except his six-year-old daughter, Jenny. Recently, one of Jeremy's closet friends asked him to make a speech at a wedding reception. This is the sort of thing that Jeremy lovers. He prepared the speech carefully and went to the wedding with Jenny. He had included a large number of funny stories in the speech and, of course, it was a great success. As soon as he had finished, Jenny told him she wanted to go home. Jeremy was a little disappointed by this but he did as his daughter asked. On the way home, he asked Jenny if she had enjoyed the speech. To his surprise, she said she hadn't. Jeremy asked her why this was so and she told him that she did not like to see so many people laughing at him! 

## Key Structure

- 复习课
    - n. + that 从句
    - 定语从句 or 同位语从句
        - We have no idea __that the boss has been back__.(同位语从句,that后不缺成分)
        - It is the most interesting movie __that I have ever seen__.(定语从句)

- 直接引语变间接引语(宾语从句)
    - He says, 'I am a fool.'
        - He says __(that) he is a fool.__
    - 'Stay to lunch,' he insisted.(''内没有主语)
        - He insisted that __I should stay to lunch__.
    - 'Come with me,' he suggested.
        - He suggested that __I should go with him__.
    - 'Open the door for me please,' she said to me.
        - She asked me to __open the door for her__.
    - 'Don't make so much noise,' she said to the children.
        - She asked/told them not to __make so much noise__.

# Lesson 64 The Channel Tunnel

## text
{% meting "28258386" "netease" "song" %}

Why was the first tunnel not completed?

In 1858, a French engineer, Aime Thome de Gamond, arrived in England with a plan for a twenty-one-mile tunnel under the English Channel. He said that it would be possible to build a platform in the centre of the Channel. This platform would serve as a port and a railway station. The tunnel would be well-ventilated if tall chimneys were built above sea level. In 1860, a better plan was put forward by an Englishman, William Low. He suggested that a double railway-tunnel should be built. This would solve the problem of ventilation, for if a train entered this tunnel, it would draw in fresh air behind it. Forty-two years later a tunnel was actually begun. If, at the time, the British had not feared invasion, it would have been completed. The world had to wait almost another 100 years for the Channel Tunnel. It was officially opened on March 7, 1994, finally connecting Britain to the European continent.

## Key Structure

| | if从句 | 主句 |
|-|--------|-----|
|假设过去|过去的各种时态|过去将来时|
|假设现在|现在的各种时态|一般将来时|
|假设将来|一般现在时(代替将来)|一般将来时|

- suggest 表示“建议”，其后宾语从句要虚拟
    - 从句中谓语动词 = (should) + 动词原形
- 表示 “建议/命令/要求”的动词后，宾语从句要虚拟
    - suggest, advise, propose, recommend / order / ask, demand, insist, request ...
- 宾语从句的虚拟
    - The engineers proposed that they __should look__ the design again.
    - The professor recommended we __should look__ for the information in the library.
    - The teacher always suggests the students __should go__ over the text before the test.
    - The workers demanded they __should be given__ the wages they should get.

- If 虚拟条件句 假设现在
    - if 从句
        - 一般现在时 did (were-只能用were)
    - 主句 
        - could + do
        - would + do
        - should + do
        - might + do
- if 虚拟条件句 假设过去
    - if 从句
        - 过去完成时 had done
    - 主句
        - could + have done
        - would + have done
        - should + have done
        - might + have done
    - Years ago __if__ someone __had turned__ round to me and said "in two years you'll be England captain", I __would have turned__ round and said, "I don't think so!"
    - 例子
        - 真实
            - I didn't tell her the result. She didn't know it.
        - 虚拟
            - __If__ I __had told__ her result, she __would have known__ it.
        - 真实
            - He was not a student, so he couldn't attend the lecture.
        - 虚拟
            - __If__ he __had been__ a student, he __could have attended__ the lecture.
        - 真实
            - We were late, so we missed the appointment.
        - 虚拟
            - __If__ we __had not been__ late, we __would not have missed__ the appointment.

- if 虚拟条件句 （假设将来）
    - if 从句 
        - did (were)
        - were to do
        - should do
    - 主句
        - could + do
        - would + do
        - should + do
        - might + do
    - If I __had/were/ to have/should/ have__ time tomorrow, I __would discuss__ the new plan with you.
    - If I __lived/were to live/should live__ my life over again, I __would have__ you as my wife.

# Lesson 65 Jumbo versus the police

## text
{% meting "28258387" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the police have to push Jumbo off the main street?

Last Christmas, the circus owner, Jimmy Gates, decided to take some presents to a children's hospital. Dressed up as Father Christmas and accompanied by a 'guard of honour' of six pretty girls, he set off down the main street of the city riding a baby elephant called Jumbo. He should have known that the police would never allow this sort of thing. A policeman approached Jimmy and told him he ought to have gone along a side street as Jumbo was holding up the traffic. Though Jimmy agreed to go at once, Jumbo refused to move. Fifteen policemen had to push very hard to get him off the main street. The police had a difficult time, but they were most amused. 'Jumbo must weigh a few tons,' said a policeman after wards, 'so it was fortunate that we didn't have to carry him. Of course, we should arrest him, but as he has good record, we shall let him off this time.'

## Key Structure

- 复习 must / have to

- 复习非谓语动词

- 情态动词的虚拟
    - should / ought to + have done

- should do / should have done
    - should do = ought to do
        - 现在应该做，可以真的去做 真实表达！
    - should have done = ought to have done
        - 过去本应该做，但实际没做 虚拟表达！

- 练习
    - He __should/ought to come__ at 4 o'clock if the plane arrivers on time.
    - She __should/ought to have come__ to see me yesterday, but she forgot.

- 短语动词 let
    - As he has a good record, we shall __let__ him __off__ this time.
    - I expected him to help me, but he __let__ me __down__.
    - If anyone knocks at the door when I am out, don't __let__ him __in__.
    - Who __let__ the dog __out__?


# Lesson 66 Sweet as honey!

## text
{% meting "28258388" "netease" "song" %}

What was 'sweet as honey' and why?

In 1963 a Lancaster bomber crashed on Wallis Island, a remote place in the South Pacific, a long way west of Samoa. The plane wasn't too badly damaged, but over the years, the crash was forgotten and the wreck remained undisturbed. Then in 1989, twenty-six years after the crash, the plane was accidentally rediscovered in an aerial survey of the island. By this time, a Lancaster bomber in reasonable condition was rare and worth rescuing. The French authorities had the plane packaged and moved in parts back to France. Now a group of enthusiasts are going to have the plane restored. It has four Rolls-Royce Merlin engines, but the group will need to have only three of them rebuilt. Imagine their surprise and delight when they broke open the packing cases and found that the fourth engine was sweet as honey - still in perfect condition. A colony of bees had turned the engine into a hive and it was totally preserved in beeswax!

## Key Structure

- 比较：do / have sth. done
    - I __wash__ my car.
    - I __have__ my car __washed__.
- have 使役动词
    - have sth. done 使某事被做(不用自己亲自做，让比人做)
    - She __asked__ somebody to value her house.
        - She __had__ her house valued.
    - He __will ask__ somebody to paint the house for him.
        - He __will have__ the house painted.
    - I __must ask__ someone to photocopy this letter.
        - I __must have__ this letter photocopied.
    - Sally __will have to ask__ someone to repair her car.
        - Sally __will have to have__ her car repaired.

# Lesson 67 Volcanoes

## text
{% meting "28258389" "netease" "song" %}

Why does Tazieff risk his life like this?

Haroun Tazieff, the Polish scientist, has spent his lifetime studying active volcanoes and deep caves in all parts of the world. In 1948, he went to Lake Kivu in the Congo to observe a new volcano which he later named Kituro. Tazieff was able to set up his camp very close to the volcano while it was erupting violently. Though he managed to take a number of brilliant photographs, he could not stay near the volcano for very long. He noticed that a river of liquid rock was coming towards him. It threatened to surround him completely, but Tazieff managed to escape just in time. He waited until the volcano became quiet and he was able to return two days later. This time, he managed to climb into the mouth of Kituro so that he could take photographs and measure temperatures. Tazieff has often risked his life in this way. He has been able to tell us more about active volcanoes than any man alive.

## Key Structure

- 复习can / be able to
    - 相同点
        - 都表示能力，“能够”（be able to 时态比 can/could 更灵活）
    - 不同点
        - 表示过去已经成功做到的，用 was/were able to, 不用 could

- managed to do = was/were able to do
    - 设法去做，并且做到了

- say / tell
    - say(后面接说的内容)
        - say something / anything /nothing
        - say so / no more
        - say goodbye / a good word
    - tell(一般接人，也可以接物)
        - tell us a story
        - tell you a secret
        - tell the truth / lies
        - tell the difference / the time
    - If you __say__ so, I suppose it's true.
    - I don't think you would __tell__ me a lie.
    - He is only five, but he can already __tell__ the time.
    - If you could __say__ a good word for him, he might get the job.

# Lesson 68 Persistent

## text
{% meting "28258390" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Elizabeth tell Nigel that she was going to the dentist?

I crossed the street to avoid meeting him, but he saw me and came running towards me. It was no use pretending that I had not seen him, so I waved to him. I never enjoy meeting Nigel Dykes. He never has anything to do. No matter how busy you are, he always insists on coming with you. I had to think of a way of preventing him from following me around all morning.  
'Hello, Nigel,' I said. 'Fancy meeting you here!'  
'Hi, Elizabeth,' Nigel answered. 'I was just wondering how to spend the morning - until saw you. You're not busy doing anything, are you?'  
'No, not at all,' I answered. 'I'm going to ...'  
'Would you mind my coming with you?' he asked, before I had finished speaking.  
'Not at all,' I lied, 'but I'm going to the dentist.'  
'Then I'll come with you,' he answered. 'There's always plenty to read in the waiting room!'

## Key Structure
- 非谓语动词doing
    1. 相当于名词用-动名词
        - 作主语
            - __Fishing__ is my favourite sport.
        - 介词后，作宾语
            - I often fish for hours without __catching anything__.
        - 有些动词后，作宾语
    2. 修饰名词或句子，表示主动/正在进行-现在分词
        - __Passing planes__ can be heard night and day.
        - __Looking round__, I realized that I was the only passenger.
- doing 动名词逻辑主语
    - They insist on __finishing the report__ before Sunday.
        - They insist on __her finishing the report__ before Sunday.
    - __Coming late__ made me nervous.
        - __His coming late__ made the teacher angry.

- 反意疑问句
    - __You're not__ busy doing anything, __are you__?
    1. 构成
    2. 特点
    3. 写法
    - 练习
        - 问
            - He plays basketball well, __doesn't he__?
            - He finished his work, __didn't he__?
            - You can't understand me, __can you__?
            - He hasn't left the office, __has he__?
        - 答
            - You don't love me, do you?
                - 是的，我不爱。No, I don't.
                - 不是的，我爱。Yes, I do.


# Lesson 69 But not murder

## text
{% meting "28258391" "netease" "song" %}

Do you think that the writer passed his driving test? Why?

I was being tested for a driving license for the third time. I had been asked to drive in heavy traffic and had done so successfully. After __having been instructed__ to drive out of town, I began to acquire confidence. Sure that I had passed, I was almost beginning to enjoy my test. The examiner must have been pleased with my performance, for he smiled and said, 'Just one more thing, Mr.Eames. Let us suppose that a child suddenly crosses the road in front of you. As soon as I tap on the window, you must stop within five feet.' I continued driving and after some time, the examiner trapped loudly. Though the sound could be heard clearly, it took me a long time to react. I suddenly pressed the brake pedal hard and we were both thrown forward. The examiner looked at me sadly. 'Mr.Eames,' he said, in a mournful voice, 'you have just killed that child!'

## Key Structure

- 复习被动语态

- 非谓语动词的变体：having been done
    - 表示被动，发生在先
    - 练习
        - 已经被告诉了很多次，他还是犯相同的错误。
            - __Having been told many times__, he still repeated the same mistake.
        - 被广告影响之后，人们就会冲去买新产品。
            - __Having been influenced by the advertisements__, people will rush to buy new products.
- 表示被动
    - be done | done
        - be done
            - 作谓语，被动语态
        - done
            - 不作谓语，非谓语动词
    - was thrown | thrown
        - The bottle __was thrown__ into the sea.
        - The bottle __thrown__ into the sea is found.
- 非谓语动词 表示被动
    1. __Beaten__ by a girl, the boy cried.
        - done,只表示被动
    2. __Having been beaten__ by a girl, the boy cried.
        - having been done，表示被动在之前 
    3. __Being beaten__ by a girl, the boy cried.
        - being done，表示被动同时
- 非谓语动词 vs. 谓语动词 时间关系
    - 非谓语动词不能表示绝对时间，但能表示相对顺序
    - __Having been beaten__ by a girl, the boy __cried__.
    - __Having been beaten__ by a girl, the boy __is crying__.
    


# Lesson 70 Red for danger

## text
{% meting "28258392" "netease" "song" %}

How was the drunk removed from the ring?

During a bullfight, a drunk suddenly wandered into the middle of the ring. The crowd began to shout, but the drunk was unaware of the danger. The bull was busy with the matador at the time, but it suddenly caught sight of the drunk who was shouting rude remarks and waving a red cap. Apparently sensitive to criticism, the bull forgot all about the matador and charged at the drunk. The crowd suddenly grew quiet. The drunk, however, seemed quite sure of himself. When the bull got close to him, he clumsily stepped aside to let it pass. The crowd broke into cheers and the drunk bowed. By this time, however, three men had come into ring and they quickly dragged the drunk to safety. Even the bull seemed to feel sorry for him, for it looked on sympathetically until the drunk was out of the way before once more turning its attention to the matador.

## Key Structure

- 形容词与介词搭配的词组
    - 后面可接 for 的形容词
        - sorry for 对...感到遗憾
        - responsible for 对...负责
        - valid for 有效期为...
        - eager for 渴望的
        - enough for 足够
        - famous for 以...闻名
        - fit for 适合
        - grateful for/to 感激
        - thankful for/to 感谢
        - qualified for/in 能胜任
        - ready for/to 准备好
    - 后面可接with的形容词
        - popular with 为...所喜爱
        - patient with 有耐心
        - consistent with 与...一致
        - content with 对...满足
        - busy with/at 忙于
        - familiar with/to 与...熟悉
        - angry with sb. 因某人而生气
        - angry at sth. 因某事而生气
    - 后面可接of的形容词
        - aware of 知道，意识到
        - sure of 肯定
        - capable of 能够
        - fond of 爱好
        - afraid of 害怕
        - jealous of 妒忌
        - short of 缺乏
    - 后面可接to的形容词
        - sensitive to 对...敏感的
        - close to 接近于
        - contrary to 与...相反
        - equal to 与...相等
        - faithful to 忠于...
        - similar to 与...相似
        - harmful to 对...有害的
        - useful to 对...有用
    - 后面可接at的形容词
        - bad/good at 不善于/善于...
        - quick/slow at 在...方面快速/缓慢
        - expert/skillful + at/in 熟练于...
    - 后面可接from的形容词
        - away/far from 距离...远的, 远离...
        - different from 与...不同的
        - safe from 无危险
    - 后面可接in的形容词
        - weak in 在... 薄弱的
        - honest in 在...诚实的
        - fortunate in 在...幸运的
    - 后面可接on的形容词
        - dependent on 依赖于...
        - keen on 热心于...
        - intent on 专心于...
    - 后面可接about的形容词
        - curious about 对...好奇的
        - enthusiastic about 对...热心
        - doubtful about/of 对...有疑问的
        - reluctant about/to 对...勉强的
    - 练习
        - He is not different __from__ anyone else.
        - I am not familiar __with__ his novels and not very keen __on__ reading them.
        - I think he's quite honest __in__ his intentions.
        - He may be quick __at__ understanding, but he's not capable __of__ remembering anything.
        - You should not be so sensitive __to__ criticism.
        - He is intent __on__ passing the examination, but I'm doubtful __of/about__ his chances.

# Lesson 71 A famous clock

## text
{% meting "28258393" "netease" "song" %}

Has Big Ben ever gone wrong?

When you visit London, one of the first things you will see is Big Ben, the famous clock which can be heard all over the world on the B.B.C. If the Houses of Parliament had not been burned down in 1843, the great clock would never have been erected. Big Ben takes its name from Sir Benjamin Hall who was responsible for the making of the clock when the new Houses of Parliament were being built. It is not only of immense size, but is extremely accurate as well. Officials from Greenwich Observatory have the clock checked twice a day. On the B.B.C. You can hear the clock when it is actually striking because microphones are connected to the clock tower. Big Ben has rarely gone wrong. Once, however, it failed to give the correct time. A painter who had been working on the tower hung a pot of paint on one of the hands and slowed it down!

## Key Structure

- 复习

- hang
    - 悬挂，吊 hung hung
        - A painter hung a pot of paint on one of the hands
    - 绞死 hanged hanged
        - The hero was hanged
    - We must all hang together, or assuredly we shall all hang separately. - Benjamin Franklin
    - I __hung__(hanged/hung) my coat in the hall.
    - Murderers will not be __hanged__(hanged/hung) in future. 

# Lesson 72 A car called _Bluebird_

## text
{% meting "28258394" "netease" "song" %}

What mistake was made?

The great racing driver, Sir Malcolm Campbell, was the first man to drive at over 300 miles per hour. He set up a new world record in September 1935 at Bonneville Salt Flats, Utah. _Bluebird_, the car he was driving, had been specially built for him. It was over 30 feet in length and had a 2,500-horsepower engine. Although Campbell reached a speed of over 304 miles per hour, he had great difficulty in controlling the car because a tyre burst during the first run. After his attempt, Campbell was disappointed to learn that his average speed had been 299 miles per hour. However, a few days later, he was told that a mistake had been made. His average speed had been 301 miles per hour. Since that time, racing rivers have reached speeds over 600 miles an hour. Following in his father's footsteps many years later, Sir Malcolm's son, Donald, also set up a world record. Like his father, he was driving a car called _Bluebird_.

## Key Structure

- 复习

- 内容回顾
    - 第一单元：
        - 一件事，简单句
    - 第二单元：
        - 多件事，并列句，复合句
    - 第三单元：
        - 多件事的简化，非谓语动词
