---
title: 《新概念英语二》85~90笔记
date: 2022-02-15 10:28:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 85 Never too old to learn

## text
{% meting "28258407" "netease" "song" %}

How long has Mr.Page been teaching?

I have just received a letter from my old school, informing me that my former headmaster, Mr.Stuart Page, will be retiring next week. Pupils of the school, old and new, will be sending him a present to mark the occasion. All those __who have contributed towards the gift__ will sign their names in a large album __which will be sent to the headmaster's home__. We shall all remember Mr.Page for his patience and understanding and for the kindly encouragement he gave us when we went so unwillingly to school. A great many former pupils will be attending a farewell dinner in his honour next Thursday. It is a curious coincidence that the day before his retirement, Mr.Page will have been teaching for a total of forty years. After he has retired, he will devote himself to gardening. For him, this will be an entirely new hobby. But this does not matter, for, as he has often remarked, one is never too old to learn.

## Key Structure

- 复习 一般将来时/将来进行时/将来完成进行时

- too ... to... "太...以至于不能.."
    - too + adj./adv. + to do sth.
    - too young to go to school
    - too tired to clean the room
    - too old to learn

# Lesson 86 Out of control

## text
{% meting "28258408" "netease" "song" %}

What was the danger?

As the man tried to swing the speedboat round, the steering wheel came away in his hands. He waved desperately to his companion, who had been water skiing for the last fifteen minutes. Both men had hardly had time to realize what was happening when they were thrown violently into the sea. The speedboat had struck a buoy, but it continued to move very quickly across the water. Both men had just begun to swim towards the shore, when they noticed with dismay that the speedboat was moving in a circle. It now came straight towards them at tremendous speed. In less than a minute, it roared past them only a few feet away. After it had passed, they swam on as quickly as they could because they knew that the boat would soon return. They had just had enough time to swim out of danger when the boat again completed a circle. On this occasion, however, it had slowed down considerably. The petrol had nearly all been used up. Before long, the noise dropped completely and the boat began to drift gently across the water.

## Key Structure

- 复习 过去完成时 / 过去完成进行时

- 时态
    - 时间 + 状态
    - 通过谓语动词的变化来体现
    - 共16种

| | 过去 | 现在 | 将来 | 过去将来 |
|-|------|-----|------|----------|
|一般| √,3 |  √,2  |  √,12  |    7,9     |
|进行| √,7 |  √,2  |   13  |          |
|完成| √,9,14 |  √4,5 |   37  |          |
|完成进行|62,86|  52,53,76,77 | 61,85 |   |


# Lesson 87 A perfect alibi

## text
{% meting "28258409" "netease" "song" %}

What was wrong with the man's story?

'At the time the murder was committed, I was travelling on the 8 o'clock train to London,' said the man.  
'Do you always catch such an early train?' asked the inspector.  
'Of course I do,' answered the man. 'I must be at work at 10 o'clock. My employer will confirm that I was there on time.'  
'Would a later train get you to work on time?' asked the inspector.  
'I suppose it would, but I never catch a later train.'  
'At what time did you arrive at the station?'  
'At ten to eight. I bought a paper and waited for the train.'  
'And you didn't notice anything unusual?'  
'Of course not.'  
'I suggest,' said the inspector, 'that you are not telling the truth. I suggest __that you did not catch the 8 o'clock train__, but __that you caught the 8.25 which would still get you to work on time__. You see, on the morning of the murder, the 8 o'clock train did not run at all. It broke down at Ferngreen station and was taken off the line.'

## Key Structure

- 复习课

- 平行结构
    - __The English, the Germans, the Dutch and the French__ were investing in Britain' former colony.
    - 平行的成分: 词性相同，形式一致
    - 平行的连接: 并列连词/逗号
    - We resolve to get up earlier each morning, eat less, find more time to play with children, do a thousand and one jobs about the house, be nice to people we don't like, drive carefully, __and__ take the dog for a walk every day.

# Lesson 88 Trapped in a mine

## text
{% meting "28258410" "netease" "song" %}

Why is the rescue taking so long?

Six men have been trapped in a mine for seventeen hours. If they are not brought to the surface soon they may lose their lives. However, rescue operations are proving difficult. If explosives are used, vibrations will cause the roof of the mine to collapse. Rescue workers are therefore drilling a hole on the north side of the mine. They intend to bring the men up in a special capsule. If there had not been a hard layer of rock beneath the soil, they would have completed the job in a few hours. As it is, they have been drilling for sixteen hours and they still have a long way to go. Meanwhile, a microphone, which was lowered into the mine two hours ago, has enabled the men to keep in touch with their closest relatives. Though they are running out of food and drink, the men are cheerful and confident that will get out soon. They have been told that rescue operations are progressing smoothly. If they knew how difficult it was to drill through the hard rock, they would lose heart.

## Key Structure

- if 条件状语从句
    - 跟if的是从句，另一个是主句
    - 真实条件句
    - 虚拟条件句

- if 条件状语从句(真实条件句)

| | if从句 | 主句 |
|-|--------|-----|
|假设过去|过去的各种时态|过去将来时|
|假设现在|现在的各种时态|一般将来时|
|假设将来|一般现在时（代替将来）|一般将来时|

- if 条件状语从句(虚拟条件句)

|时间范围| if 从句 |      | 主句 |
|-------|---------|------|------|
|假设过去| had done| would | + have done |
|假设现在| did/were | could | + do |
|假设将来| did/were | should | +do |
|假设将来| were to do | might |   |
|假设将来| should do |        |   |
