---
title: 《新概念英语二》43-48笔记
date: 2022-01-30 10:38:19
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 43 Over the South Pole

## text
{% meting "28258364" "netease" "song" %}

How was the plane able to clear the mountains?

In 1929, three years after his flight over the North Pole, the American explorer, R.E Byrd, successfully flew over the South Pole for the first time. Though, at first, Byrd and his men were able to take a great many photographs of the mountains that lay below, they soon ran into serious trouble. At one point, it seemed certain that their plane would crash. It could only get over the mountains if it rose to 10,000 feet. Byrd at once ordered his men to throw out two heavy food sacks. The plane was then able to rise and it cleared the mountains by 400 feet. Byrd now knew that he would be able to reach the South Pole which was 300 miles away, for there were no more mountains in sight. The aircraft was able to fly over the endless white plains without difficulty.

## Key Structure

- can / be able to
    - 相同点：都表示能力，“能够”
        - （be able to 时态比can / would 灵活）
    - 不同点
        - 表示过去已经成功做到的，用was/were able to,不用 could
        - can 还可以表示猜测，允许

- 主语从句
    - 含义：一个主句做主语，放到另一个句子做主语
    - 位置：句首或句尾
    - 练习
        - 你不能跟我们一起去真是个遗憾
            - __That you can't go with us__ is a pity.
            - __It__ is a pity that __you can't go with us__.
        - 他们是否将会准时到达这不确定。
            - __Whether they will arrive here on time__ is uncertain.
            - It is uncertain __whether they will arrive here on time__.

- at 介词短语
    - at first 
    - at once 立刻，马上
    - at home
    - at present
    - at school
    - at last
    - at any rate 在任何程度上(好歹，最少能做到)
    - at times 有时候，偶尔
    - at heart 在内心深处
    - at a loss 不知所措

# Lesson 44 Through the forest

## text
{% meting "28258365" "netease" "song" %}

How did Mrs.Sterling get her bag back?

Mrs.Anne Sterling did not think of the risk she was taking when she ran through a forest after two men. They had rushed up to her while she was having a picnic at the edge of a forest with her children and tried to steal her handbag. In the struggle, the strap broke and, with the bag in their possession, both men started running through the trees. Mrs.Sterling got so angry that she ran after them. She was soon out of breath, but she continued to run. When she caught up with them, she saw that they had sat down and were going through the contents of the bag, so she ran straight at them. The men got such a fright that they dropped the bag and ran away. 'The strap needs mending,' said Mrs.Sterling later, 'but they did not steal anything.'

## Key Structure

- doing 动名词
    1. 做主语
        - __Fishing__ is my favorite sport.
    2. 介词后，作宾语
        - I often fish for hours without __catching anything__.
        - 特殊的介词to
            - I am looking forward to __seeing him__ tomorrow.
            - I am accustomed to __getting up early__.
            - I am used to __getting up early__.
    3. __有些__ 动词后，作宾语
        - The men __started to run__ through the trees.
            - = The men __started running__ through the trees.
            - start / begin / continue 接doing 与 to do 意思相同
        - I __hate to disturb__ you, but can I come in?
            - I __hate disturbing__ people when they are busy.
            - love / like / hate / dislike 接doing 与 to do 意思不同
        - The strap broke and it __needs mending__.
            - need doing 主动表示被动
    - 练习
        - I'd love __to see__ that film. Will it be on tomorrow?
        - He's accustomed to __working__ hard.
        - These shirts need __ironing__.
        - They continued __to argue__ till after midnight.
        - You must never come into his room without __knocking__ first.

# Lesson 45 A clear conscience

## text
{% meting "28258366" "netease" "song" %}

How did Sam get his money back?

The whole village soon learnt that a large sum of money had been lost. Sam Benton, the local butcher, had lost his wallet while taking his savings to the post office. Sam was sure that the wallet must have been found by one of the villagers, but it was not returned to him. Three months passed, and then one morning, Sam found his wallet outside his front door. It had been wrapped up in newspaper and it contained half the money he had lost, together with a note which said:'A thief, yes, but only 50 per cent a thief!' Two months later, some more money was sent to Sam with another note:'Only 25 per cent a thief now!' In time, all Sam's money was paid back in this way. The last note said:'I am 100 per cent honest now!'

## Key Structure

- 改写被动语态(去掉someone)
    - Someone has prepared a meal for you.
        - A meal __has been prepared__ for you
    - Someone will translate the book into English.
        - The book __will be translated__ into English.
    - Someone must send a telegram to him.
        - A telegram __must be sent__ to him.
    - Someone had put out the fire before the fire brigade arrived.
        - The fire __had been put__ out before the fire brigade arrived.
    - Someone gave the cat some milk to drink.
        - The cat __was given__ some milk to drink.


# Lesson 46 Expensive and uncomfortable

## text
{% meting "28258367" "netease" "song" %}

What did the man in this story do?

When a plane from London arrived at Sydney airport, workers began to unload a number of wooden boxes which contained clothing. No one could account for the fact that one of the boxes was extremely heavy. It suddenly occurred to one of the workers to open up the box. He was astonished at what he found. A man was lying in the box on top of a pile of woollen goods. He was so surprised at being discovered that he did not even try to run away. After he was arrested, the man admitted hiding in the box before the plane left London. He had had a long and uncomfortable trip, for he had been confined to the wooden box for over eighteen hours, The man was ordered to pay $3,500 for the cost of the trip. The normal price of a ticket is $2,000!


## Key Structure

- 同位语从句
    - 含义：一个句子作同位语，去解释前面的名词。
    - 位置：所解释的抽象名词后
    - fact, news, theory, idea, suggestion, report ...
    - 写法：同宾语从句
    - 练习
        - I have no doubt __that he will help me__
        - We support the argument __that the problems of school buses must be taken seriously__ 
        - We discuss the question __whether the meeting should be held__.
        - The plan __that new subway station will be built here__ is welcomed.

- 介词后的宾语从句

- doing / being done
    - I was puzzled at __being invited__ to the stranger's wedding.
    - She was amused at __talking__ with her new friend.
    - He was delighted at __being promoted__ to senior manager.
    - The thief was shocked at __being caught__ by the police.

- 后面可接 to / at / for / with
    - with
        - communicate with 与...联系
        - compare with 与...比较
        - correspond with 与...竞争
        - correspond with 与...一致
        - contrast with 与...对比
        - quarrel with 与...争吵
        - mix with 与...混合
        - confuse with 与...混淆
        - agree / comply with 同意/服从
        - begin/finish with 开始/结束
        - cope with 处理
        - ...
    - for
        - wait for 等候
        - thank for 感谢
        - prepare for 准备
        - pay for 付钱
        - search for 搜寻
        - look for 寻找
        - hope for 希望
        - ask for 请求
        - account for 解释
        - apologize for 道歉
        - blame for 责怪
        - ...
    - at
        - look / stare / glance at 看
        - amused / astonished / shocked / surprised at 感兴趣 / 惊讶
        - point / knock at 指着 / 敲
        - arrive / work at 达到/工作
    - to 
        - go / turn to 走向/转向
        - submit / surrender / yield to 服从/投降/屈服
        - reply / respond / react to 回答/响应/反应
        - apply to 适用于
        - attach to 附属于
        - belong to 属于
        - confine to 限制
        - listen to 听
        - object to 反对
        - prefer to 更喜欢
    - 练习
        - I don't agree __with__ you.
        - She preferred __to__ wait __for__ him.
        - I'm surprise __at__ you!
        - You must reply __to__ his letter.
        - Don't blame me __for__ the accident.
        - I knocked __at__ the door.
        - He turned __to__ me for help, even after I had quarrelled __with__ him.

# Lesson 47 A thirsty ghost

## text
{% meting "28258368" "netease" "song" %}

What evidence is there of a ghost?

A public house which was recently bought by Mr.Ian Thompson is up for sale. Mr.Thompson is going to sell it because it is haunted. He told me that he could not go to sleep one night because he heard a strange noise coming from the bar. The next morning, he found that the doors had been blocked by chairs and the furniture had been moved. Though Mr.Thompson had turned the lights off before he went to bed, they were on in the morning. He also said that he had found five empty whisky bottles which the ghost must have drunk the night before. When I suggested that some villagers must have come in for a free drink, Mr.Thompson shook his head. The villagers have told him that they will not accept the pub even if he give it away.

## Key Structure

- 句子的分类（按结构划分）
    1. 简单句
        - n. + v.
        - 主语 + 谓语
        - 谓语动词的变化
            - 时态，语态，情态，否定
    2. 并列句

    3. 复合句
        - 主句 + 从句
        - 从句
            - 名词性从句（主/宾/表/同位
            - 定语从句
            - 状语从句

# Lesson 48 Did you want to tell me something?

## text
{% meting "28258369" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the writer become very worried?

Dentists always ask questions when it is impossible for you to answer. My dentist had just pulled out one of my teeth and had told me to rest for a while. I tried to say something, but my mouth was full of cotton wool. He knew I collected match boxes and asked me whether my collection was growing. He then asked me how my brother was and whether I liked my new job in London. In answer to these questions I either nodded or made strange noises. Meanwhile, my tongue was busy searching out the hole where the tooth had been. I suddenly felt very worried, but could not say anything. When the dentist at last removed the cotton wool from my mouth, I was able to tell him that he had pulled ot the wrong tooth.

## Key Structure

- The new school, __which__ has just been completed, is a fine building.
- He __denied__ that he had taken it.
- The waiter __fetched__ me a clean glass.
- A bird flew __past__ my window.
- I spent the afternoon __watching__ the match.
- Ships __continuously__ cross the sea.
- The bank has been __robbed__.