---
title: 《新概念英语二》19-24笔记
date: 2022-01-24 10:20:19
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 19 Sold out

## text
{% meting "28258325" "netease" "song" %}

When will the writer see the play?

'The play may begin at any moment,' I said.  
'It may have begun already,' Susan answered.  
I hurried to the ticket office. 'May I have two tickets please?' I asked.  
'I'm sorry, we've sold out,' the girl said.  
'What a pity!' Susan exclaimed.  
Just then, a man hurried to the ticket office.  
'Can I return these two tickets?' He asked.  
'Certainly,' the girl said.  
I went back to the ticket office at once.  
'Could I have those two tickets please?' I asked.  
'Certainly,' the girl said, 'but they're for next Wednesday's performance. Do you still want them?'  
'I might as well have them,' I said sadly.

## Key Structure

- 情态动词
    - may(might)
        - 表推测 “可能”
            - may do (推测现在)/ may have done(推测过去)
        - 请求允许？ “可以吗？”
            - May I do sth.?(may 后要必须接I)
        - 允许 “可以”
            - I/You/They may ...
    - can
        - 能力 “能，能够”
            - Trust yourself! You __can do__ it.
        - 请求允许？ “可以吗？”
            - __Can I__ help you? / What __can I__ do for you?
            - You __can help__ me to find my size.
        - 推测（常用于否定）can't / couldn't “不可能”
            - He is abroad. It __can't be__ him.

# Lesson 20 One man in a boat

## text
{% meting "28258330" "netease" "song" %}

Why is fishing the writer's favorite sport?

Fishing is my favorite sport. I often fish for hours without catching anything. But this does not worry me. Some fishermen are unlucky. Instead of catching fish, they catch old boots and rubbish. I am even less lucky. I never catch anything - not even old boots. After having spent whole morning on the river, I always go home with an empty bag. 'You must give up fishing!' my friends say. 'It's a waste of time.' But they don't realize one important thing. I'm not really interested in fishing. I am only interested in sitting in a boat and doing nothing at all. 

## Key Structure

- doing 动名词
    - 作主语
        - __Fishing__ is my favorite sport.(fish 是动词,加ing变名词)
        - __Playing basketball__ is my favorite sport.
    - 介词后，作宾语
        - I often fish for hour without __catching anything__.

- 介词 + doing动名词 改写句子
    - He sat there. He did not say anything.(without)
        - He sat there __without saying__ anything.
    - He turned of the radio. He left the room.(before)
        - He turned of the radio __Before leaving__ the room .
    - I must apologize. I interrupted you.(for)
        - I must apologize __for interrupting__ you.
        - I must apologize __for having interrupted__ you.


# Lesson 21 Mad or not?

## text
{% meting "28258333" "netease" "song" %}

Why do people think the writer is mad?

Airplanes are slowly driving me mad. I live near an airport and passing planes can be heard night and day. The airport was built years ago, but for some reason it could not be used then. Last year, however, it came into use. Over a hundred people must have been driven away from their homes by the noise. I am one of few people left. Sometimes I think this house will be knocked down by a passing plane. I have been offered a large sun of money to go away, but I am determined to stay here. Everybody says I must be mad  and they are probably right.

## Key Structure

- 被动语态与时态相结合(复习L10)
    - be + done
        - be 1 被动的时态，2 主语的单复数 
        - done 被动的动作

- 被动语态与情态动词或词组相结合
    - Planes __are heard__.
    - Planes __can be__ heard.
    - Planes __may be__ heard.
    - Planes __must be__ heard.
    - The letter __must be sent__ immediately.
    - The weather __cannot be controlled__ by people.
    - must have been done (推测过去的被动)
        - My cell phone __must have been stolen__.
        - His keys __must have been lost__.


- 主动语态 vs. 被动语态
    - He will repair __your watch__. (Who)
    - __Your watch__ will be repaired (by him).(What，强调事)
    - They must test __this new car__.
    - __This new car__ must be tested.

- doing / done 修饰名词（作定语）
    - I am one of __the few people left__.
    - doing 修饰名词（作定语）
        - __passing__ planes
        - a __waiting__ car
        - __boiling__ water
        - a __sleeping__ baby
        - a __developing__ country
        - a woman __wearing a white coat__
    - done 修饰名词（作定语）
        - __used__ cars
        - a __deserted__ car park
        - a __ploughed__ field
        - a __developed__ country
        - __wasted__ time
        - a car __called Blue Bird__
        - the few people __left__

# Lesson 22 A glass envelope

## text

{% meting "28258334" "netease" "song" %}

How did Jane receive a letter from a stranger?

My daughter, Jane, never dreamed of receiving a letter from a girl of her own age in Holland. Last year, we were travelling across the Channel and Jane put a piece of paper with her name and address on it into a bottle. She threw the bottle into the sea. She never thought of it again, but ten months later, she received a letter from a girl in Holland. Both girl writer to each other regularly now. However, they have decided to use the post office. Letters will cost a little more, but they will certainly travel faster.

## Key Structure
- 修饰比较级
    - a little(bit)
    - much / a lot / far
    - even

- 后面可接on的动词（on - 在...上面）
    - act on 遵守
    - base on 在...基础上
    - comment on 评论
    - concentration on 集中
    - lean on 倚靠于...（具体的）
    - live on 靠...为生
    - operate on 起作用(做手术)
    - count on / depend on / rely on 依赖于（抽象上）

- 后面可接in的动词（in - 在...里面)
    - believe in 信仰
    - delight in 喜欢
    - interest in 感兴趣
    - include in 包括
    - involve in 卷入
    - engage in 参与
    - experience in 在...有经验
    - fail in 没有尽到（失败）
    - help in (with) 帮助

- 后面可接from的动词（from - 从...来）
    - borrow from 从...借
    - receive from 收到来自于...
    - escape from 从...逃出
    - draw from 从...拉过来
    - suffer from 从...受苦
    - differ from 有别于
    - separate from 从...分开
    - protect from 保护...使免于
    - defend from
    - prevent from 阻止...使免于

- 后面可接of的动词
    - consist of 由...组成
    - think of 思考
    - complain of 抱怨
    - dream of 幻想
    - accuse of 控告
    - approve of 赞成
    - assure of 让...放心
    - beware of 注意
    - be/get rid of 摆脱
    - tired of 对...感到厌烦
    - convince of 使...信服

- 后面可接 of / from / in / on 的动词
    - I withdrew a lot of money __from__ the bank.
    - I refuse to comment __on__ his work.
    - The waiter's tip is included __in__ the bill.
    - Beware __of__ the dog.
    - Do you approve __of__ hunting?
    - Are you interested __in__ music?
    - Don't lean __on__ the shelf.
    - They differ __from__ each other so much.

# Lesson 23 A new house

## text
{% meting "28258335" "netease" "song" %}

Why is the new house special?

I had a letter from my sister yesterday. She lives in Nigeria. In her letter, she said that she would come to England next year. If she comes, she will get a surprise. We are now living in a beautiful new house in the country. Work on it had begun before my sister left. The house was completed five months ago. In my letter, I told her that she could stay with us. The house has many large rooms and there is a lovely garden. It is a very modern house, so it looks strange to some people. It must be the only modern house in the district.

## Key Structure
- There be 句型
    - There be + n（最常见）
        - There is a girl in the classroom.
        - There was a book on the table.
        - There is still some honesty in this world.
    - There be + n + doing
        - there is a girl crying.
    - There be + n + 介词短语/doing
        - There is a girl crying in the classroom.
        - There were some people rowing on the river.
    
# Lesson 24 It could be worse

## text
{% meting "28258337" "netease" "song" %}

Had the writer's money been stolen?

I entered the hotel manager's office and sat down. I had just lost $50 and I felt very upset. 'I left the money in my room,' I said, 'and it's not there now.' The manager was sympathetic, but he could do nothing. 'Everyone's losing money these days,' he said. He started to complain about this wicked world but was interrupted by a knock at the door. A girl came in and put an envelope on his desk. It contained $50. 'I found this outside this gentleman's room,' she said. 'Well,' I said to the manager, 'there is still some honesty in this world!'

