---
title: 《新概念英语二》79~84笔记
date: 2022-02-13 10:26:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 79 By air

## text
{% meting "28258401" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the plane turn back?

I used to travel by air a great deal when I was a boy. My parents used to live in South America and I used to fly there from Europe in the holidays. A flight attendant would take charge of me and I never had an unpleasant experience. I am used to travelling by air and only on one occasion have I ever felt frightened. After taking off, we were flying low over the city and slowly gaining height, when the plane suddenly turned round and flew back to the airport. While we were waiting to land, a flight attendant told us to keep calm and to get off the plane quietly as soon as it had touched down. Everybody on board was worried and we were curious to find out what had happened. Later we learnt that there was a very important person on board. The police had been told that a bomb planted on the plane. After we had landed, the plane was searched thoroughly. Fortunately, nothing was found and five hours later we were able to take off again.

## Key Structure

- used to do sth. / be sued to doing sth.

    - be used to + doing sth. / sth. | 习惯于做某事 / 某事 
        - My friend is used to swimming in winters.
        - He is used to sleeping during the daytime.

- 倒装句(部分倒装)
    - 突出强调
    - 格式: 否定词提前，变一般疑问句
    - 练习
        - You will never know the truth.
            - Never __will you know the truth__.
        - He cares little for my words.
            - Little __does he cares for my words__.
        - I had no sooner got the invitation than I refused.
            - No sooner __had I got the invitation than I refused__.
        - We can learn English well only in this way.
            - Only in ths way __can we learn English well__.
        - He achieved his goal only by working hard.
            - Only by working hard __did he achieve his goal__.

- 复习一般过去时/过去进行时/过去经常发生

- take 搭配的词组:
    - After __taking off__, we were flying over the city...
    - He __took off__ his coat.
    - He is always __taking__ his teacher __off__.
    - That wardrobe __takes up__ a lot of space.
    - He has __taken up__ French.
    - When his wife died, he __took to__ drinking.
    - Young Tom __takes after__ his father.
    - He was so persuasive that I __was taken in__.
    - The reporter __took down__ everything I said.
    - That business was doing very badly until Jones __took over__.
    - Who will take __over__ when the present director leaves.
    - As soon as he got into the lift he took his hat __off__.
    - You shouldn't be taken __in__ by stories like that.
    - None of my children takes __after__ me.

# Lesson 80 The Crystal Palace

## text
{% meting "28258402" "netease" "song" %}

How many people visited the Great Exhibition of 1851?

Perhaps the most extraordinary building of the nineteenth century was the Crystal Palace, which was built in Hyde Park for the Great Exhibition of 1851. The Crystal Palace was different from all other buildings in the world, for it was made of iron and glass. It was one of the biggest buildings of all time and a lot of people from many countries came to see it. A great many goods were sent to the exhibition from various parts of the world. There was also a great deal of machinery on display. The most wonderful piece of machinery on show was Nasmyth's steam hammer. Though in those days, travelling was not as easy as it is today, steam boats carried thousands of visitors across the Channel from Europe. On arriving in England, they were taken to the Crystal Palace by train. There were six million visitors in all, and the profits from the exhibition were used to build museums and colleges. Later, the Crystal Palace was moved to South London. It remained one of the most famous buildings in the world until it was burnt down in 1936.

## Key Structure

- 复习形容词/副词的比较

- 介词 on 搭配的词组:
    - He has gone to Frankfurt __on business__.
    - I asked to see the officer __on duty__.
    - __On the whole__, it has been a very successful year.
    - __On the average__, I make six telephone calls a day.
    - I didn't catch the bus. I came here __on foot__.
    - Look at that smoke. That building must be __on fire__.
    - I don't think it was an accident. He did it __on purpose__.
    - You mustn't __on any account__ sign the contract before you read it.
    - I know I had agreed to let you go to the cinema, but __on second thoughts__, you should stay at home and finish your homework.
    - While the guard was __on duty__, he heard a shot.
    - I've changed my mind. __On second thoughts__ I'll go by plane instead.
    - You must not, __on any account__, leave this room.
    - I'm not always pleased with his work, but __on the whole__ it is satisfactory.

# Lesson 81 Escape

## text
{% meting "28258403" "netease" "song" %}

Why did the prisoner attack the driver?

When he had killed the guard, the prisoner of war quickly dragged him into the bushes. Working rapidly in the darkness, he soon changed into the dead man's clothes. Now, dressed in a blue uniform and with a rifle over his shoulder, the prisoner marched boldly up and down in front of the camp. He could hear shouting in the camp itself. Lights were blazing and men were running here and there: they had just discovered that a prisoner had escaped. At that moment, a large black car with four officers inside it, stopped at the camp gates. The officers got out and the prisoner stood to attention and saluted as they passed. When they had gone, the driver of the car came towards him. The man obviously wanted to talk. He was rather elderly with grey hair and clear blue eyes. The prisoner felt sorry for him, but there was nothing else he could do. As the man came near, the prisoner knocked him to the ground with a sharp blow. Then, jumping into the car, he drove off as quickly as he could.

## Key Structure

- 复习介词

- in / into
- to / towards
- at
- with
- for
