---
title: 《新概念英语二》7-12笔记
date: 2022-01-21 15:58:36
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 7 Too late

## text

{% meting "28258109" "netease" "song" %}

Did the detectives save the diamonds.  

The plane was late and detectives were waiting at the airport all morning. They were expecting a valuable parcel of diamonds from South Africa. A few hours earlier, someone had told the police that thieves would try to steal the diamonds. When the plane arrived, some of the detectives were waiting inside the main building while others were waiting on the airfield. Two man took the parcel off the plane and carried it into the Customs House. While two detectives were keeping guard at the door, two others opened the parcel. To their surprise, the precious parcel was full of stones and stand!

## Key structure
- 过去进行时（常搭配 when / while / as）
    - 形式：was/were/doing
    - 用法：
        - She **was reading** a book at 11:00 last night.
    - 变否定疑问：
        - She was not reading a book ...
        - Was she reading a book ...?
    - where / as 用于持续进行，when无限制
        - **While** they **were sleeping**, a thief **sneaked** in.
        - I **was having** breakfast **when** the telephone **rang**.
- 过去将来时
    - 形式：
        - would do
        - was / were going to do
    - 用法：过去的将来
        - He **said** that he **would travel** abroad next year.

- 陈述句变宾语从句（that引导）
    - You are right.
    - I think **(that) you are right**.


# Lesson 8 The best and the worst

## text
{% meting "28258110" "netease" "song" %}

Why is Joe's garden the most beautiful one in the town?

Joe Sanders has the most beautiful garden in our town. Nearly everybody enters for 'The Nicest Garden Competition' each year, but Joe wins every time. Bill Frith's garden is larger than Joe's. Bill works harder than Joe and grows more flowers and vegetables, but Joe's garden is more interesting. He has made neat paths and has built a wooden bridge over a pool. I like gardens too, but I do not like hard work. Every year I enter for the garden competition too, and I always win a little prize for the garden in the town!

## Key structure

- 形容词 / 副词的作用
    - 形容词(adj.)修饰名词
        - This is a **wonderful** world.
        - We are living in a **beautiful new** house.
        - Their sleeping bags were **warm and comfortable**. 
    - 副词(adv.)修饰 动词 / 句子 / 其他的形容词或副词 
        - Roy acted **quickly**
        - **Suddenly**, one of the children kicked a ball.
        - It rained **continually** and it was often **bitterly** cold.
        - The students from elite universities catch up **very quick**.

- 形容词副词的三种比较级别
    - 原级比较
    - 比较级
        - adj./adv.的比较级 + （than 比较的对象）
        - 通常用于两者之间的比较
        - I am __taller__ than you.
        - Air tickets are __more expensive__ than train tickets.
        - Sometimes machines can perform __better__ than human beings.
    - 最高级
        - adj./adv.的最高级 + （介词短语表示比较的范围）
        - 通常用于三者或以上的比较
        - My younger sister is **the tallest** one in her class.
        - __The most serious__ problem of the project is the lack of power.
        - 如何加介词(in后面是场所，of后是肩并肩的同类)
            - Which is the longest river __in__ the world?
            - This is the finest picture __of__ them all.

# Lesson 9 A cold welcome

## text

{% meting "28258111" "netease" "song" %}

What does 'a cold welcome' refer to?

On Wednesday evening, we went to the Town Hall. It was the last day of the year and a large crowd of people had gathered under the Town Hall clock. It would strike twelve in twenty minutes' time. Fifteen minutes passed and then, at five to twelve, the the clock stopped. The big minute hand did not move. We waited and waited, but nothing happened. Suddenly someone shouted, 'It's two minutes past twelve! The clock has stopped!' I looked at my watch. It was true. The big clock refused to welcome the New Year. At that moment, everybody began to laugh and sing.

## Key Structure
- 介词
    - 介词(prep.)，要接词
    - 名词，代词，动名词(doing)
    - 介词短语
- 表示时间的介词
    - in (在什么大的时间之内)
        - in 1992 / January / summer
        - in the morning / afternoon / evening
        - in twenty minutes' time.(特殊：搭配将来时，表示在多少时间之后)
    - on (搭配天,只要有天就用on)
        - on Monday.
        - on July 7th.
        - on Wednesday evening.
        - on the morning of July 7th.
    - at (接时间点)
        - at 8 o'clock / 8:00
        - at midnight / noon
        - at night
    - before
        - They got the news the day __before__ yesterday.
    - after
        - I will come back here __after__ ten o'clock.
    - since(自从...之后)
        - __Since__ then, Captain Fawcett has flown passengers to many unusual places.
    - until(直到...)
        - I sometimes stay in bed __until__ lunchtime.
    - during(在...时间段内)
        - It rained heavily __during__ the night.
    - for (持续了多久)
        - He has been there __for__ six months.
    - by (截止到...时间)
        - Workers will have completed the new roads __by__ the end of this year.
    - from ... till/to(从开始到结束)
        - The shops are open __from__ 9 __till/to__ 5.

# Lesson 10 Not for jazz

## text
{% meting "28258112" "netease" "song" %}

What happened to the clavichord?

We have an old musical instrument. It is called a clavichord. It was made in Germany in 1681. Our clavichord is kept in the living room. It has belonged to our family for a long time. The instrument was bought by my grandfather many years ago. Recently is was damaged by a visitor. She tried to play jazz on it! She struck the keys too hard and two of the strings were broken. My father was shocked. Now we are not allowed to touch it. It is being repaired by a friend of my father's.

## Key Structure

- 被动语态  
    狗吃了那个蛋糕->蛋糕被狗吃了。  
    - be + done
        - be: 1表示被动的时间，2主语的单复数
        - done: 被动的动作
    - Classrooms __are cleaned__ every day. 
    - The new building __was built__ last year.
    - He __is beaten__ every day.
    - He __was beaten__ yesterday.
    - He __will be beaten__ tomorrow.
    - He __is being beaten__ now.
    - He __has been beaten__.
    - 现在进行时的被动: __am / is / are__ being done
    - 现在完成时的被动: __have / has__ been done
- 名词所有格
    - ' (顺着翻译)
        - the __Workers'__ (以s结尾'后不加s) Club
        - the __children's__ toys
        - twenty __minutes'__ time
    - of (倒过来翻译)
        - the door __of__ the room
        - the use __of__ the data

# Lesson 11 One good turn deserves another

## text
{% meting "28258269" "netease" "song" %}

Who paid for Tony's dinner?

I was having dinner at a restaurant when Tony Steele came in. Tony worked in a lawyer's office years ago, but he is now working at a bank. He gets a good salary, but he always borrows money from his friends and never pays it back. Tony saw me and came and sat at the same table. He has never borrowed money from me. While he was eating, I asked him to lend me twenty pounds. To my surprise, he gave me the money immediately. 'I have never borrowed any money from you,'Tony said, 'so now you can pay for my dinner!'

## Key structure
复习
- L2 一般现在时 现在进行时
- L3 一般过去时
- L4,5 现在完成时
- L7 过去进行时
---
- 一般现在时 do / does
    
- 一般过去时 did
- 现在进行时 am / is / are + doing
- 过去进行时 was / were + doing
- 现在完成时 have / has + done

- 例句
    - Jack always __goes__ to work by car.
    - Yesterday afternoon his car __broke__ down while he __was driving__ to work.
    - Now he __is taking__ a bus to work
    - He never __has done__ that before.

# Lesson 12 Goodbye and good luck

## text

{% meting "28258274" "netease" "song" %}

Where is Captain Alison going and how?

Our neighbour, Captain Charles Alison, will sail from Portsmouth tomorrow. We'll meet him at the harbour early in the morning. He will be in his small boat, _Topsail_. _Topsail_ is a famous little boat. It has sailed across the Atlantic many times. Captain Alison will set out at eight o'clock, so we'll have plenty of time. We'll see his boat and then we'll say goodby to him. He will be away for two months. We are very proud of him. He will take part in an important race across the Atlantic.  

## Key Structure

- 一般将来时
    - 形式
        - shall + do
        - will + do (临时决定的)
            - Be careful! The box is too heavy. I __will__ help you.
        - be(am/is/are) going to + do (事先有预兆、事先有计算的情况下中)
            - It is so dark outside. It __is going to__ rain.
            - I have got an offer. I __am going to__ study abroad next year.
    - 用法: (现在的)将来
        - I __will study__ abroad.
        - I __am going to study__ abroad.
        - He __will be__ a teacher. 
        - He __is going to be__ a teacher.
    - 变否定/疑问
        - He __will not be__ a teacher.
        - __Will__ he __be__ a teacher.

        - He __is not going to be__ a teacher.
        - __Is__ he __going to be__ a teacher? 

- 非延续性动词 + 一段时间?
    - He __will be away__ for two months.(away 是一种状态，可以接一段时间)
    - He __will leave__ for two months.(错误，leave是一个瞬间动作，不能接一段时间)
    - He will leave.

- be动词搭配的词组
    - He will __be away__ for two months.
    - I'm going out now. I'll __be back__ at six o'clock.
    - I'll __be out__ all morning.
    - I went to Ted's house and asked to see him but he __wasn't in__.
    - Why don't you forget about it? __It's all over__.
    - __What's on__ at the local cinema this week?
    - She is very ill. She can't start work yet. She __is__ not __up to__ it.
    - When the concert __ended__, we went home. __was over__
    - You can't take the exam yet. You __are__ not __capable of__ if. __are__ ，__up to__