---
title: 《新概念英语二》73~78笔记
date: 2022-02-11 14:32:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 73 The record-holder

## text
{% meting "28258395" "netease" "song" %}

Did the boy go where he wanted to?

Children who play truant from school are unimaginative. A quiet day's fishing, or eight hours in a cinema seeing the same film over and over again, is usually as far as they get. They have all been put to shame by a boy who, while playing truant, travelled 1,600 miles. He hitchhiked to Dover and, towards evening, went into a boat to find somewhere to sleep. When he woke up next morning, he discovered that the boat had, in the meantime, travelled to Calais. No one noticed the boy as he crept off. From there, he hitchhiked to Paris in a lorry. The driver gave him a few biscuits and a cup of coffee and left him just outside they city. The next car they boy stopped did not take him into the centre of Paris as he hoped it would, but to Perpignan on the French-Spanish border. There he was picked up by a policeman and sent back to England by the local authorities. He has surely set up a record for the thousands of children who dream of evading school.

## Key Structure
- 复习简单句/并列句/复合句

- 如何连接句子
    - not only ... but as well
        - The climbers reached the top of the mountain.
        - They spent the night there.
        - The climbers __not only__ reached the top of the mountain __but__ spent night there __as well__.
    - such ... that
        - He gave me a fright.
        - I knocked the teapot over.
        - He gave me __such__ a fright __that__ I knocked the teapot over.
    - when ... and
        - A fire broke out in the cinema.
        - Several hundred people tried to leave the building.
        - A number of them were injured.
        - __When__ a fire broke out in the cinema, several hundred people tried to leave the building and a number of them were injured.
    - whose
        - James Sullivan will give a lecture at the local library.
        - His book on the Antarctic was published recently.
        - James Sullivan, __whose__ book on the Antarctic was published recently, will give a lecture at the local library.


# Lesson 74 Out of the limelight

## text
{% meting "28258396" "netease" "song" %}

Why was their disguise 'too perfect'?

An ancient bus stopped by a dry river bed and a party of famous actors and actresses got off. Dressed in dark glasses and old clothes, they had taken special precautions so that no one should recognize them. But as they soon discovered, disguises can sometimes be too perfect.  
'This is a wonderful place for a picnic,' said Gloria Gleam.  
'It couldn't be better, Gloria,' Brinksley Meers agreed. 'No newspaper men, no film fans! Why don't we come more often?'  
Meanwhile, two other actors, Rockwall Slinger and Merlin Greeves, had carried two large food baskets to a shady spot under some trees. When they had all made themselves comfortable, a stranger appeared. He looked very angry. 'Now you get out of here, all of you!' he shouted. 'I'm sheriff here. Do you see that notice? It says "No camping" - in case you can't read!'  
'Look, sheriff,' said Rockwall, 'don't be too hard on us. I'm Rockwall Slinger and this is Merlin Greeves.'  
'Oh, is it?' said the sheriff with a sneer. 'Well, I'm Brinksley Meers, and my other name is Gloria Gleam. Now you get out of here fast!'

## Key Structure

- 复习现在进行时/一般现在时

- 限定 / 非限定性的定语从句
    - This is __the wall which__ they built last week.
    - This is __the Great Wall, which__ is world-famous.

- 动词get的词组搭配:
    - Now you __get out of__ here, all of you!
    - The door is locked. I can't __get out__.
    - I've lost my key. I can't __get into__ the house.
    - How is he __getting on__ in his new job?
    - __Get on with__ you work.
    - He's so difficult, I can't __get on with__ him.
    - Tom was punished, but Jim __got off__ lightly.
    - I can't __get__ the cap of this pen off.
    - He has now __got over__ his illness.
    - I want to __get__ this interview __over__ as quickly as possible.

# Lesson 75 SOS

## text
{% meting "28258397" "netease" "song" %}

How did the woman get help?

When a light passenger plane flew off course some time ago, it crashed in the mountains and its pilot was killed. The only passengers a young woman and her two baby daughters, were unhurt. It was the middle of winter. Snow lay thick on the ground. The woman knew that the nearest village was miles away. When it grew dark, she turned a suitcase into a bed and put the children inside it, covering them with all the clothes she could find. During the night, it got terribly cold. The woman kept as near as she could to the children and even tried to get into the case herself, but it was too small. Early next morning, she heard planes passing overhead and wondered how she could send a signal. Then she had an idea. She stamped out the letters 'SOS' in the snow. Fortunately, a pilot saw the signal and sent a message by radio to the nearest town. It was not long before a helicopter arrived on the scene to rescue the survivors of the plane crash.

## Key Structure

- 复习一般过去时

- 表示“变得”:
    - He __grew__ angry when I told him about it.
    - The leaves are __turning__ yellow.
    - This apple has __gone__ bad.
    - Coal __got__ scarce last winter.
    - Everything you said __came__ true.
    - She __fell__ ill while she was on holiday.
- by
    - 'I've just arrived __by__ train,' she said.
    - It was bought __by__ my grandfather.
    - They told stories and sang songs __by__ the campfire.
    - Workers will have completed the new roads __by__ the end of this year.
    - It cleared the mountain __by__ 400 feet.

# Lesson 76 April Fools' Day

## text
{% meting "28258398" "netease" "song" %}

What was the joke?

'To end our special news bulletin,' said the voice of the television announcer, 'we're going over to the macaroni fields of Calabria, Macaroni has been grown in this area for over six hundred years. Two of the leading growers, Giuseppe Moldova and Riccardo Brabante, tell me that they have been expecting a splendid crop this year and harvesting has begun earlier than usual. Here you can see two workers who, between them, have just finished cutting three cartloads of golden brown macaroni stalks. The whole village has been working day and night gathering and threshing this year's crop before the September rains. On the right, you can see Mrs.Brabante herself. She has been helping her husband for thirty years now. Mrs.Brabante is talking to the manager of the local factory where the crop is processed. This last scene shows you what will happen at the end of the harvest: the famous Calabrian macaroni-eating competition! Signor Fratelli, the present champion, has won it every year since 1991. And that ends our special bulletin for today, Thursday, April 1st. We're now going back to the studio.'

## Key Structure

- 复习: 现在完成时 / 现在完成进行时
    - have/has done |  have/has been doing

- 区别: usual / usually
    - usual
        - usual practice
        - as usual / than usual
    - usually
        - do sth. usually
    - Harvesting has begun earlier than __usual__.
    - He __usually__ gets up at six o'clock.

- 区别: between / among
    - between
        - between you and me
    - among
        - among all the students
    - Here you can see two workers who, __between__ them, have just finished cutting three cartloads of golden brown macaroni stalks.
    - You'll find it somewhere __among__ those newspapers.

- 区别: usual / usually | between / among
    - I found your pipe. It was __among__ those things on the table.
    - As __usual__, he asked the same silly questions.
    - __Between__ studying and playing, I choose the latter.
    - He __usually__ returns home very late.

# Lesson 77 A successful operation

## text
{% meting "28258399" "netease" "song" %}

Did the doctors find out how the woman died?

The mummy of an Egyptian woman who died in 800 B.C. has just had an operation. The mummy is that of Shepenmut who was once a singer in the Temple of Tbebes. As there were strange marks on the X-ray plates taken of the mummy, doctors have been trying to find out whether the woman died of a rare disease. The only way to do this was to operate. The operation, which lasted for over four hours, proved to be very difficult because of the hard resin which covered the skin. The doctors removed a section of the mummy and set it to a laboratory. They also found something which the X-ray plates did not show: a small wax figure of the god Duamutef. This god which has the head of a cow was normally placed inside a mummy. The doctors have not yet decided how the woman died. They feared that the mummy would fall to pieces when they cut it open, but fortunately this has not happened. The mummy successfully survived the operation.

## Key Structure

- 复习: 一般过去时 / 现在完成时 / 现在完成进行时
    - did | have/has has done | have/has been doing

- 区别: ago / since / for
    - They won the match __three day ago__.
    - __Since 1992__, we have lived in this city.
    - They have been practicing __for a year__.
    - He stayed with us __for__ two weeks.
    - She arrived two weeks __ago__.
    - I have not seen him __since__ Monday.
    - He left a mont __ago__ and I have not seen him __since__ then.
    - We have been working on this new plane __for__ over a year now.

# Lesson 78 The last one?

## text
{% meting "28258400" "netease" "song" %}

For how long did the writer give up smoking?

After reading an article entitled 'Cigarette Smoking and Your Health' I lit a cigarette to calm my nerves. I smoked with concentration and pleasure as I was sure that this would be my last cigarette. For a whole week I did not smoke at all and during this time, my wife suffered terribly. I had all the usual symptoms of someone giving up smoking: a bad temper and an enormous appetite. My friends kept on offering me cigarettes and an cigars. They made no effort to hide their amusement whenever I produced a packet of sweets from my pocket. After seven days of this I went to a party. Everybody around me was smoking and I felt extremely uncomfortable. When my old friend Brian urged me to accept a cigarette, it was more than I could bear. I took one guiltily, lit it and smoked with satisfaction. My wife was delighted that things had returned to normal once more. Anyway, as Brian pointed out, it is the easiest thing in the world to give up smoking. He himself has done it lots of times!

## Key Structure

- 复习冠词

- 动词keep搭配的词组:
    - My friends __kept on__ offering me cigarettes.
    - Please __keep off__ the grass.
    - He __kept away from__ the party.
    - Under my essay, the teacher wrote, 'Good work! __Keep it up__!'
    - He ran so fast, I could not __keep up with__ him.
    - A big notice on the door said, '__Keep out__!'
    - The cat __was kept in__ during the fireworks.
    - I think he kept __away from__ the meeting on purpose.
    - He kept __on__ making the same mistake.
    - Keep __off__ the floor. I have just finished clean.