---
title: 《新概念英语二》37-42笔记
date: 2022-01-30 10:36:19
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 37 The Olympic Games

## text
{% meting "28258358" "netease" "song" %}

When was the last time this country hosted the Olympic Games?

The Olympic Games will be held in our country in four years' time. As a great many people will be visiting the country, the government will be building new hotels, an immense stadium, and a new Olympic-standard swimming pool. The will also be building new roads and a special railway line. The Games will be held just outside the capital and the whole area will be called 'Olympic City'. Workers will have completed the new roads by the end of this year. By the end of next year, they will have finished work on the new stadium. The fantastic modern buildings have been designed by Kurt Gunter. Everybody will be watching anxiously as the new building go up. We are all very excited and are looking forward to the Olympic Games because they have never been held before in this country.

## Key Structure

- 将来完成时
    - 形式： will / shall + have done
    - 用法：
        - By the end of next year, the __will have finished__ work on the new stadium.

- 完成时态
    - 过去完成时
        - had done
    - 现在完成时
        - have / has done
    - 将来完成时
        - will have done
    - I __had worked__ here for 10 days __by last month__.
    - I __have worked__ here for 25 days __by now__.
    - I __will have worked__ here for 30 days __by next week__.

- will be done

- will be doing

- by + 时间
    - 通常接完成时

- 短语动词 look
    - We are __looking__ __forward to__ celebrating the Spring Festival.
    - __Look out__! A bus is coming.
    - I don't understand this word. I shall __look__ it __up__ in a dictionary.
    - Don't forget to __look__ me __up__ when you return.


# Lesson 38 Everything except the weather

## text
{% meting "28258359" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Harrison sell his house so quickly?

My old friend, Harrison, had lived in the Mediterranean for many years before he returned to England. He had often dreamed of retiring in England and had planned to settle down in the country. He had no sooner returned than he bought a house and went to live there. Almost immediately he began to complain about the weather, for even though it was still summer, it rained continually and it was often bitterly cold. After so many years of sunshine, Harrison got a shock. He acted as if he had never lived in England before. In the end, it was more than he could bear. He had hardly had time to settle down when he sold the house and left the country. The dream he had had for so many years ended there. Harrison had thought of everything except the weather.

## Key Structure

- 过去完成时 vs. 一般过去时

- no sooner ... than ...
    - "一 ... 就 ..."
    - Yesterday I __had no sooner got__ back to the kitchen __than__ the doorbell __rang__.

- hardly ... when ...

- 分析主谓
    - __The dream__(主语) ( __he__(主语) __had had__(谓语) for so many years )从句 __ended__(谓语) there.
    - She(主) __knew__(谓) she(主) __was__(谓) near the shore.
    - 主主谓谓，中间是从句
    - 主谓主谓，后面是从句
    - The present she gave me was very amazing.

## 单词
- continually 不断的(指反复持续，有间断)
- continuously 连续不断地(没有间断)


# Lesson 39 Am I all right?

## text
{% meting "28258360" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Mr.Gilbert telephone Dr.Millington?

While John Gilbert was in hospital, he asked his doctor to tell him whether his operation had been successful, but the doctor refused to do so. The following day, the patient asked for a bedside telephone. When he was alone, he telephoned the hospital exchange and asked for Doctor Millington. When the doctor answered the phone, Mr.John Gilbert said he was inquiring about a certain patient, a Mr.John Gilbert. He asked if Mr.Gilbert's operation had been successful and the doctor tole him that it had been. He then asked when Mr.Gilbert would be allowed to go home and the doctor told him that he would have to stay in hospital for anther two weeks. Then Dr.Millington asked the caller if he was a relative of the patient. 'No,' the patient answered, 'I am Mr.John Gilbert.'

## Key Structure

- 直接引语 变 间接引语(宾语从句)

- 练习
    - 'I'm very tired,' he said.
        - He said __he was very tired__.
    - 'Are they tired?' she asked.
        - She asked __whether/if they were tired__?
    - 'Will Jack arrive tomorrow?' Tome asked.
        - Tome asked __whether/if Jack would arrive the next day__.
    - 'Have you ever been abroad?' Tom asked.
        - Tome asked __whether/if you had ever been abroad__.
        - Tom asked __whether/if I had ever been abroad__.
    - 'Why didn't the write to me?' she asked.
        - She asked __why he hadn't write to her__.


# Lesson 40 Food and talk

## text
{% meting "28258361" "netease" "song" %}

Was Mrs.Rumbold a good companion at dinner?

Last week at a dinner party, the hostess asked me to sit next to Mrs.Rumbold. Mrs.Rumbold was a large, unsmiling lady in a tight black dress. She did not even look up when I took my seat beside her.  Her eyes were fixed on her plate and in a short time, she was busy eating. I tried to make conversation.  
'A new play is coming to "The Globe" soon,' I said. 'Will you be seeing it?'  
'No,' she answered.  
'Will you be spending your holidays abroad this year?' I asked.  
'No,' she answered.  
'Will you be staying in England?' I asked.  
'No,' she answered.  
In despair, I asked her whether she was enjoying her dinner.  
'Young man,' she answered, 'if you ate more and talked less, we would both enjoy our dinner!'

## Key Structure

- if 虚拟条件句（虚拟语气）
    - 与客观条件不相符，用虚拟条件句
    - 假设情况的可能性很小
    - 假设现在
        - if 从句
        - 一般过去时 did (were)
        - 主句 
            - could + do
            - would + do
            - should + do
            - might + do 
    - 例句
        - If were you, I __could not be__ so confident.
        - What would you do if you __won__ a lot of money?
        - He would enjoy this if he __were__ present.
        - I am not you, so I can't make the decision.
            - __If__ i __were__ you, I __cloud make__ the decision.
        - You make the arrangements, so it will save us a lot of trouble.
            - __If__ you __didn't make__ the arrangements, it __would not save__ us a lot of trouble.
        - I don't know his phone number, so I won't ring him up.
            - __If__ I __knew__ his phone number, I __would ring__ him up.
        - __If__ I __could rearrange__ the alphabet, I __would put__ U and I together.        

- 短语动词 make
    - I tried to __make conversation__.
    - When she had __make the beds__ she went downstairs.
    - You mustn't __make__ so much __noise__.
    - I __make a promise__ never to see him again.
    - He's the sort of person who always __makes trouble__.
    - He is learning English but he hasn't __made__ much __progress__.
    - He __made__ a lot of __money__ in South America.
    - I was asked to __make a speech__.
    - I'll never __make the same mistake__ again.
    - I found it difficult to __make up my mind__.

- 短语动词 do
    - He always __does his best__.
    - When did you __do your homework__?
    - __Do me a favour__ please.
    - I want you to __do Exercise__ 24 on page 16.
    - I __did__ a lot of __shopping__ yesterday.

# Lesson 41 Do you call that a hat?

## text
{% meting "28258362" "netease" "song" %}

What kink of shopping does the writer enjoy, do you think?

'Do you call that a hat?' I said to my wife.  
'You needn't be so rude about it,' my wife answered as she looked at herself in the mirror.  
I sat down on one of those modern chairs with holes in it and waited. We had been in the hat shop for half an hour and my wife was still in front of the mirror.  
'We mustn't buy things we don't need,' I remarked suddenly. I regretted saying it almost at once.  
'You needn't have said that,' my wife answered. 'I needn't remind you of that terrible tie you bought yesterday.'  
'I find it beautiful,' I said. 'A man can never have too many ties.'  
'And a woman can't have too many hats,' she answered.  
Ten minutes later we walked out of the shop together. My wife was wearing a hat that looked like a lighthouse!

## Key Structure

- need 
    - 实义动词
        - need sth. / sb.
        - need to do / need sb. to do
        - need doing
        - He needs some time.
        - he needs to have a rest.
        - He needs friends to help him.
        - Her bag needs mending.
        - 否定形式: __don't__ need
    - 情态动词
        - need do (通常用于否定疑问)
        - __Need I__ go to the meeting?
        - No, you __needn't__ (go to the meeting).
        - need do / needn't do
        - 真实表达！
        - need have done
            - 本来需要做某事，但事实没做
        - needn't have done
            - 本来不需要做某事，但事实上做了
        - 否定形式: needn't

- mustn't needn't
    - __Must__ I finish my homework today?
        - Yes, you must.
        - No, you __needn't__.


# Lesson 42 Not very musical

## text
{% meting "28258363" "netease" "song" %}

What happened when the snake charmer began to play jazz?

As we had had a long walk through one of the markets of Old Delhi, we stopped at a square to have a rest. After a time, we noticed a snake charmer with two large baskets at the other side of the square, so we went to have a look at him. As soon as he saw us, he picked up a long pipe which was covered with coins and opened one of the baskets. When he began to play a tune, we had our first glimpse of the snake. It rose out of the basket and began to follow the movements of the pipe. We were very much surprised when the snake charmer suddenly began to play jazz and modern pop songs. The snake, however, continued to 'dance' slowly. It obviously could not tell he difference between Indian music and jazz!

## Key Structure

- 复习have的用法(实义动词/助动词)
    - 实义动词
        - “有” 
        - “吃喝玩乐做”
        - “做”
    - 助动词（无实义，用于完成时态中）

- have a + n. = 对应的v.
    - have a walk(n.) = walk(v.)
    - have a rest = rest
    - have a look = look
    - have a swim = swim
    - have a sleep = sleep
    - have a walk = walk
    - have a drink = drink
    - have a talk = talk
    - have a try = try

- 练习
    - I __swam__ in the sea this morning.
        - I __had a swim__ in the sea this morning.
    - She is __resting__.
        - She is __having a rest__.
    - Did you __sleep well__ last night?
        - Did you __have a good sleep__ last night? 