---
title: 《新概念英语二》25-30笔记
date: 2022-01-26 10:44:19
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 25 Do the English speak English?

## text
{% meting "28258340" "netease" "song" %}

Why does the writer not understand the porter?

I arrived in London at last. The railway station was big, black and dark. I did not know the way to my hotel, so I asked a porter. I not only spoke English very carefully, but very clearly as well. The porter, however, cloud not understand me. I repeated my question several times and at last the understood me. He answered me, but he spoke neither slowly nor clearly. 'I am a foreigner,' I said. Then he spoke slowly, but I could not understand him. My teacher never spoke English like that! The porter and I looked at each other and smiled. Then he said something and I understood it. 'You'll soon learn English!' he said. I wonder. In England, each person speaks a different language. The English understand each other, but I don't understand them! Do the speak English?  

## Key Structure
- 句子的分类（按照结构划分）
    1. 简单句
    2. 并列句
        - 含义：多件事，一样重要
        - 并列连词
            1. 顺接
                - ... and ... / both ... and ...
                - not only ... but ... as well
                - not only ... but also ...
                - not only ... but ...
            2. 转折
                - ... but ...
                - ... yet ...
            3. 选择
                - ... or ... / either ... or ...
                - neither ... nor ...
            4. 因果
                - ... for ...
                - ... so ...
        - 特点
            - 相同的可以省略，余下的保持不变
                - I ran to the station. I missed the bus.
                    - I ran to the station __but I__ missed the bus.
                    - I ran to the station __but__ missed the bus.
                - I spoke English very carefully. I spoke English very clearly.
                    - I __not only__ spoke English very carefully, __but__ I spoke English very clearly __as well__.
                    - I __not only__ spoke English very carefully, __but__ very clearly __as well__.
                - He __did not speak__ English. I __did not speak__ English.
                    - __Neither__ he __nor__ I __spoke__ English. 

    3. 复合句

# Lesson 26 The best art critics

## text
{% meting "28258342" "netease" "song" %}

Who is the student's best critic?

I am an art student and I paint a lot of pictures. Many people pretend that they understand modern art. They always tell you what a picture is 'about'. Of course, many pictures are not 'about' anything. They are just pretty patterns. We like them in the same way that we like pretty curtain material. I think that young children often appreciate modern pictures better than anyone else. They notice more. My sister is only seven, but she always tells me whether my pictures are good or not. She came into my room yesterday.  
'What are you doing?' she asked.  
'I'm hanging this picture on the wall,' I answered. 'It's new one. Do you like it?'  
She looked at it critically for a moment. 'It's all right,' she said, 'but isn't it upside down?'  
I looked at it again. She was right! It was!

## Key Structure
- 宾语从句
    - 含义：一个句子作宾语，把它放到另一句子里，另一个句子叫主句，主句+从句
    - 写法：连接词 + 陈述句
        - 陈述句中缺什么，连接词写什么
    1. 陈述句变宾语从句？
        - you are right.
            - I think __(that) you are right__.
        - They understand modern art.
            - Many people pretend __(that) they understand modern art__.
    2. 特殊疑问句变宾语从句？
        - What is a picture 'about'?
            - They always tell you __what a picture is 'about'__
    3. 一般疑问句变宾语从句？
        - Are my pictures good or not?
            - She always tells me __wither / if my pictures are good or not__.
    - 位置
        1. Many people __pretend__ that they understand modern art.
        2. They always __tell you__ what a picture is 'about'.
        3. He was astonished __at__ what he found.
    - 练习
        - I promise __that__ I will help you.
        - You never told me __what__ you had done to my computer.
        - I wonder __when__ we will come set out.
        - Then don't know __whether they will finish the work on time__.

- 名词性从句
    - 宾语从句
    - 表语从句
    - 主语从句
    - 同位语从句

# Lesson 27 A wet night

## text
{% meting "28258344" "netease" "song" %}

What happened to the boys in the night?

Late in the afternoon, the boys put up their tent in the middle of a field. As soon as this was done, they cooked a meal over an open fire. They were all hungry and the food smelled good. After a wonderful meal, they told stories and sang songs by the campfire. But some time later it began to rain. The boys felt tired so they put out the fire and crept into their tent. Their sleeping bags were warm and comfortable, so they all slept soundly. In the middle of the night, two boys woke up and began shouting. The tent was full of water! They all leapt out of their sleeping bags and hurried outside. It was raining heavily and they found that a steam had formed in the field. The stream wound its way across the field and then flowed right under their tent!

## Key Structure
- 复习一般过去时

- 短语动词 put
    - put up 搭起，建起/安排住宿
    - put up with sb 忍受...
    - put out the fire 扑灭火
    - put down 放下来、写下来
    - put ... away 放在一边
    - put ... off 推迟
    - put on 穿上

# Lesson 28 No parking

## text
{% meting "28258345" "netease" "song" %}

What is Jasper White's problem?

Jasper White is one of those rare people who believes in ancient myths. He has just bought a new house in the city, but ever since he moved in, he has had trouble with cars and their owners. When he returns home at night, he always finds that someone has parked a car outside his gate. Because of this, he has not been able to get his own car into his garage even once. Jasper has put up 'No Parking' signs outside his gate, but these have not had any effect. Now he has put an ugly stone head over the gate. It is one of the ugliest faces I have ever seen. I asked him what it was and he told me that it was Medusa, the Gorgon. Jasper hopes that she will turn cars and their owners to stone. But none of them has been turned to stone yet. 

## Key Structure

- 定语从句
    - 含义：一个句子作定语，修饰一个名词
    - 位置：所修饰名词后
    - 写法：
        - This is __the job__. I have dreamed of __the job__ for years.
            - This is __the job__ __which i have dreamed of for years__.

|先行词| 关系词|
|-----|-------|
|事 / 物| which / that|
|人 | who / whom / that |
|人 / 物 ("某人的" / "某物的") | whose |
|时间| when |
|地点| where |
|原因| why |

- 定语从句的关系词每一个都作成分，包括that
- whom 指认，只能在坐宾语时使用
- 关系词在定语从句中作宾语时，可以省略

- 定语从句练习
    - I have a class __which/that__ begins at 8:00 am.
    - The lawyer __who__ my brother called didn't answer the phone
    - My daughter asked me a question __which / that__ I couldn't answer.
    - Australia is one of the few countries __where__ people drive on the left.
    - Sunday is the day __when__ people usually don't go to work.
    - Is there any particular reason __why__ you can't come?

- 复习现在完成时

- 复习宾语从句

# Lesson 29 Taxi!

## text
{% meting "28258347" "netease" "song" %}

Does Captain Fawcett think any trip is too dangerous?

Captain Ben Fawcett has bought an unusual taxi and has begun a new service. The 'taxi' is a small Swiss aeroplane called a 'Pilatus Porter'. This wonderful plane can carry seven passengers. The most surprising thing about it, however, is that it can land anywhere: on snow, water, or even on a ploughed field. Captain Fawcett's first passenger was a doctor who flew from Birmingham to a lonely village in the Welsh mountains. Since then, Captain Fawcett has flown passengers to many unusual places. Once he landed on the roof of a block of flats and on another occasion, he landed in a deserted car park. Captain Fawcett has just refused a strange request from a businessman. The man wanted to fly to Rockall, a lonely island in the Atlantic Ocean, but Captain Fawcet did not take him because the trip was too dangerous.

## Key Structure

- 复习现在完成时
    - 常搭配
        - have / has + __just__ + done
        - already
        - ever
        - never
        - up to now / up till now
        - so far
        - since + 过去的时间
        - since + 过去的动作（一般过去时的句子）
            - He has lived in Beijing since 1993. (since he was born.)

- 表语从句
    - 什么是什么
    - 含义：一个句子作表语
    - 位置：在系动词后
    - 例子
        - His suggestion is __that__ we should keep calm.
        - The question is __when__ he will arrive here.
        - The point is __whether__ the new plan is feasible.

- take / bring / fetch
    - take 从这拿走 ->
    - bring 从别的地方拿来 <-
    - fetch 从这去拿过来 -> <-

# Lesson 30 Football or polo?

## text
{% meting "28258350" "netease" "song" %}

What happened to the man in the boat?

The Wayle is a small river that cuts across the park near my home. I like sitting by the Wayle on fine afternoons. It was warm last Sunday, so I went and sat on the river bank as usual. Some children were playing games on the bank and there were some people rowing on the river. Suddenly, one of the children kicked a ball very hard and it went towards a passing boat. Some people on the bank called out to the man in the boat, but he did not hear them. The ball struck him so hard that he nearly fell into the water. I turned to look at the children, but there weren't any in sight: they had all run away! The man laughed when he realized what had happened. He called out to the children and threw the ball back to the bank.

## Key Structure

- 冠词
    - 定冠词 the 表是特指
    - 不定冠词 a / an 表示泛指
    - 零冠词 不加冠词
    - 人名和地名的前面，一般不加冠词
    - 海洋、河流、山脉和部分国名前，加定冠词 the
        - the Atlantic
        - the Alps
        - the United States

- there be 句型
    - 这儿有
- some / any
    - 当都表示 __一些、许多__ 的含义的时候，some用于肯定句，any用于否定句和疑问句
    - Is there __any__ milk in the bottle?
    - There isn't __any__ milk in the bottle, but there is __some__ water in it.
    - Are there __any__ nails in that tin?
    - There aren't __any__ in the tin, but there are __some__ on the shelf.