---
title: 《新概念英语二》1~6笔记
date: 2022-02-09 18:46:22
tags: [英语, 笔记, 新概念英语]
categories: 英语
aplayer: true
---

# Lesson 67 Volcanoes

## text
{% meting "28258389" "netease" "song" %}

Why does Tazieff risk his life like this?

Haroun Tazieff, the Polish scientist, has spent his lifetime studying active volcanoes and deep caves in all parts of the world. In 1948, he went to Lake Kivu in the Congo to observe a new volcano which he later named Kituro. Tazieff was able to set up his camp very close to the volcano while it was erupting violently. Though he managed to take a number of brilliant photographs, he could not stay near the volcano for very long. He noticed that a river of liquid rock was coming towards him. It threatened to surround him completely, but Tazieff managed to escape just in time. He waited until the volcano became quiet and he was able to return two days later. This time, he managed to climb into the mouth of Kituro so that he could take photographs and measure temperatures. Tazieff has often risked his life in this way. He has been able to tell us more about active volcanoes than any man alive.

## Key Structure

- 复习can / be able to
    - 相同点
        - 都表示能力，“能够”（be able to 时态比 can/could 更灵活）
    - 不同点
        - 表示过去已经成功做到的，用 was/were able to, 不用 could

- managed to do = was/were able to do
    - 设法去做，并且做到了

- say / tell
    - say(后面接说的内容)
        - say something / anything /nothing
        - say so / no more
        - say goodbye / a good word
    - tell(一般接人，也可以接物)
        - tell us a story
        - tell you a secret
        - tell the truth / lies
        - tell the difference / the time
    - If you __say__ so, I suppose it's true.
    - I don't think you would __tell__ me a lie.
    - He is only five, but he can already __tell__ the time.
    - If you could __say__ a good word for him, he might get the job.

# Lesson 68 Persistent

## text
{% meting "28258390" "netease" "song" %}

Why did Elizabeth tell Nigel that she was going to the dentist?

I crossed the street to avoid meeting him, but he saw me and came running towards me. It was no use pretending that I had not seen him, so I waved to him. I never enjoy meeting Nigel Dykes. He never has anything to do. No matter how busy you are, he always insists on coming with you. I had to think of a way of preventing him from following me around all morning.  
'Hello, Nigel,' I said. 'Fancy meeting you here!'  
'Hi, Elizabeth,' Nigel answered. 'I was just wondering how to spend the morning - until saw you. You're not busy doing anything, are you?'  
'No, not at all,' I answered. 'I'm going to ...'  
'Would you mind my coming with you?' he asked, before I had finished speaking.  
'Not at all,' I lied, 'but I'm going to the dentist.'  
'Then I'll come with you,' he answered. 'There's always plenty to read in the waiting room!'

## Key Structure
- 非谓语动词doing
    1. 相当于名词用-动名词
        - 作主语
            - __Fishing__ is my favourite sport.
        - 介词后，作宾语
            - I often fish for hours without __catching anything__.
        - 有些动词后，作宾语
    2. 修饰名词或句子，表示主动/正在进行-现在分词
        - __Passing planes__ can be heard night and day.
        - __Looking round__, I realized that I was the only passenger.
- doing 动名词逻辑主语
    - They insist on __finishing the report__ before Sunday.
        - They insist on __her finishing the report__ before Sunday.
    - __Coming late__ made me nervous.
        - __His coming late__ made the teacher angry.

- 反意疑问句
    - __You're not__ busy doing anything, __are you__?
    1. 构成
    2. 特点
    3. 写法
    - 练习
        - 问
            - He plays basketball well, __doesn't he__?
            - He finished his work, __didn't he__?
            - You can't understand me, __can you__?
            - He hasn't left the office, __has he__?
        - 答
            - You don't love me, do you?
                - 是的，我不爱。No, I don't.
                - 不是的，我爱。Yes, I do.


# Lesson 69 But not murder

## text
{% meting "28258391" "netease" "song" %}

Do you think that the writer passed his driving test? Why?

I was being tested for a driving license for the third time. I had been asked to drive in heavy traffic and had done so successfully. After __having been instructed__ to drive out of town, I began to acquire confidence. Sure that I had passed, I was almost beginning to enjoy my test. The examiner must have been pleased with my performance, for he smiled and said, 'Just one more thing, Mr.Eames. Let us suppose that a child suddenly crosses the road in front of you. As soon as I tap on the window, you must stop within five feet.' I continued driving and after some time, the examiner trapped loudly. Though the sound could be heard clearly, it took me a long time to react. I suddenly pressed the brake pedal hard and we were both thrown forward. The examiner looked at me sadly. 'Mr.Eames,' he said, in a mournful voice, 'you have just killed that child!'

## Key Structure

- 复习被动语态

- 非谓语动词的变体：having been done
    - 表示被动，发生在先
    - 练习
        - 已经被告诉了很多次，他还是犯相同的错误。
            - __Having been told many times__, he still repeated the same mistake.
        - 被广告影响之后，人们就会冲去买新产品。
            - __Having been influenced by the advertisements__, people will rush to buy new products.
- 表示被动
    - be done | done
        - be done
            - 作谓语，被动语态
        - done
            - 不作谓语，非谓语动词
    - was thrown | thrown
        - The bottle __was thrown__ into the sea.
        - The bottle __thrown__ into the sea is found.
- 非谓语动词 表示被动
    1. __Beaten__ by a girl, the boy cried.
        - done,只表示被动
    2. __Having been beaten__ by a girl, the boy cried.
        - having been done，表示被动在之前 
    3. __Being beaten__ by a girl, the boy cried.
        - being done，表示被动同时
- 非谓语动词 vs. 谓语动词 时间关系
    - 非谓语动词不能表示绝对时间，但能表示相对顺序
    - __Having been beaten__ by a girl, the boy __cried__.
    - __Having been beaten__ by a girl, the boy __is crying__.
    


# Lesson 70 Red for danger

## text
{% meting "28258392" "netease" "song" %}

How was the drunk removed from the ring?

During a bullfight, a drunk suddenly wandered into the middle of the ring. The crowd began to shout, but the drunk was unaware of the danger. The bull was busy with the matador at the time, but it suddenly caught sight of the drunk who was shouting rude remarks and waving a red cap. Apparently sensitive to criticism, the bull forgot all about the matador and charged at the drunk. The crowd suddenly grew quiet. The drunk, however, seemed quite sure of himself. When the bull got close to him, he clumsily stepped aside to let it pass. The crowd broke into cheers and the drunk bowed. By this time, however, three men had come into ring and they quickly dragged the drunk to safety. Even the bull seemed to feel sorry for him, for it looked on sympathetically until the drunk was out of the way before once more turning its attention to the matador.

## Key Structure

- 形容词与介词搭配的词组
    - 后面可接 for 的形容词
        - sorry for 对...感到遗憾
        - responsible for 对...负责
        - valid for 有效期为...
        - eager for 渴望的
        - enough for 足够
        - famous for 以...闻名
        - fit for 适合
        - grateful for/to 感激
        - thankful for/to 感谢
        - qualified for/in 能胜任
        - ready for/to 准备好
    - 后面可接with的形容词
        - popular with 为...所喜爱
        - patient with 有耐心
        - consistent with 与...一致
        - content with 对...满足
        - busy with/at 忙于
        - familiar with/to 与...熟悉
        - angry with sb. 因某人而生气
        - angry at sth. 因某事而生气
    - 后面可接of的形容词
        - aware of 知道，意识到
        - sure of 肯定
        - capable of 能够
        - fond of 爱好
        - afraid of 害怕
        - jealous of 妒忌
        - short of 缺乏
    - 后面可接to的形容词
        - sensitive to 对...敏感的
        - close to 接近于
        - contrary to 与...相反
        - equal to 与...相等
        - faithful to 忠于...
        - similar to 与...相似
        - harmful to 对...有害的
        - useful to 对...有用
    - 后面可接at的形容词
        - bad/good at 不善于/善于...
        - quick/slow at 在...方面快速/缓慢
        - expert/skillful + at/in 熟练于...
    - 后面可接from的形容词
        - away/far from 距离...远的, 远离...
        - different from 与...不同的
        - safe from 无危险
    - 后面可接in的形容词
        - weak in 在... 薄弱的
        - honest in 在...诚实的
        - fortunate in 在...幸运的
    - 后面可接on的形容词
        - dependent on 依赖于...
        - keen on 热心于...
        - intent on 专心于...
    - 后面可接about的形容词
        - curious about 对...好奇的
        - enthusiastic about 对...热心
        - doubtful about/of 对...有疑问的
        - reluctant about/to 对...勉强的
    - 练习
        - He is not different __from__ anyone else.
        - I am not familiar __with__ his novels and not very keen __on__ reading them.
        - I think he's quite honest __in__ his intentions.
        - He may be quick __at__ understanding, but he's not capable __of__ remembering anything.
        - You should not be so sensitive __to__ criticism.
        - He is intent __on__ passing the examination, but I'm doubtful __of/about__ his chances.

# Lesson 71 A famous clock

## text
{% meting "28258393" "netease" "song" %}

Has Big Ben ever gone wrong?

When you visit London, one of the first things you will see is Big Ben, the famous clock which can be heard all over the world on the B.B.C. If the Houses of Parliament had not been burned down in 1843, the great clock would never have been erected. Big Ben takes its name from Sir Benjamin Hall who was responsible for the making of the clock when the new Houses of Parliament were being built. It is not only of immense size, but is extremely accurate as well. Officials from Greenwich Observatory have the clock checked twice a day. On the B.B.C. You can hear the clock when it is actually striking because microphones are connected to the clock tower. Big Ben has rarely gone wrong. Once, however, it failed to give the correct time. A painter who had been working on the tower hung a pot of paint on one of the hands and slowed it down!

## Key Structure

- 复习

- hang
    - 悬挂，吊 hung hung
        - A painter hung a pot of paint on one of the hands
    - 绞死 hanged hanged
        - The hero was hanged
    - We must all hang together, or assuredly we shall all hang separately. - Benjamin Franklin
    - I __hung__(hanged/hung) my coat in the hall.
    - Murderers will not be __hanged__(hanged/hung) in future. 

# Lesson 72 A car called _Bluebird_

## text
{% meting "28258394" "netease" "song" %}

What mistake was made?

The great racing driver, Sir Malcolm Campbell, was the first man to drive at over 300 miles per hour. He set up a new world record in September 1935 at Bonneville Salt Flats, Utah. _Bluebird_, the car he was driving, had been specially built for him. It was over 30 feet in length and had a 2,500-horsepower engine. Although Campbell reached a speed of over 304 miles per hour, he had great difficulty in controlling the car because a tyre burst during the first run. After his attempt, Campbell was disappointed to learn that his average speed had been 299 miles per hour. However, a few days later, he was told that a mistake had been made. His average speed had been 301 miles per hour. Since that time, racing rivers have reached speeds over 600 miles an hour. Following in his father's footsteps many years later, Sir Malcolm's son, Donald, also set up a world record. Like his father, he was driving a car called _Bluebird_.

## Key Structure

- 复习

- 内容回顾
    - 第一单元：
        - 一件事，简单句
    - 第二单元：
        - 多件事，并列句，复合句
    - 第三单元：
        - 多件事的简化，非谓语动词
